Techstars 312: In Chicago as well.
Techstars 312: and it's not working. Oh, you can talk about it, can just talk. And what was I saying? Oh, yes, former founder went through a couple 3 years ago, was my eir and a part of my board.
Techstars 312: and so I'm based here in the bay, and will be one of your.
Techstars 312: and I'm excited for you. You're in good hands. So
Techstars 312: have a great time. Yes, and currently has worked with
Techstars 312: literally every company that has joined us in the day.
Techstars 312: So the past 60 companies that have been here she knows has worked with and has helped with financial modeling, Kpis, metrics, weekly everything. She's seen it all. So she's super dope. We're excited to have her, yes, excited to work with you all over the next 3 months. So my background is, if it helps, was in hardware. My 1st company was in hardware and then in senior care. And now
Techstars 312: I am the general managers, and think about this person who oversees all the different programs with the corporate university. And the city program is like in San Francisco.
Techstars 312: And so I can help connect dots as to what's going on across the different groups. And I do think my background is also can be useful to you guys. I spent 20 plus years at Ibm, initially starting the group on the strategy side before
Techstars 312: launched. The Ibm ventures 1 point O. And we called it the lots of Ecosystem fund trying to jump, start the AI ecosystem.
Techstars 312: They're a little ahead of the time. So we need to pause on that program. And then I went to actually do some investor relations activities. So then I came back in and relaunched the Ibm ventures. And so I had been really close to how corporates of Ibm
Techstars 312: and other corporates think about early stage investing. How do you make the right introductions to the corporation? What are they looking for? The strategic, financial and all the continuum in there, and I can help with maybe introductions depending on when it's the right time for those, so use me as additional resource. It will help you reach me. Look at my Linkedin. If there's a contact that you really want to get into.
Techstars 312: I'm happy to provide that as well. So it's a pleasure while you are in for a journey. I know it already started a couple weeks ahead. I consider you guys ahead of the rest of the classes. So you're in great hands. I hope you have a lot of time. I added a link to Angie's Linkedin and her name in the weekly. What to expect. So you have access to that
Techstars 312: one final reminder. This is not a multitasking session. So if you have anything else to do, go, do it somewhere else, because you need your full, undivided attention.
Techstars 312: One of my favorite people in the world, Matt, will have introduced himself. Thank you. Super stoked to be here team. So you shouldn't take any set of advice from anyone who doesn't have the credentials to back it up. So first, st I'm going to tell you guys what I've done with my life, and why, what I'm about to say actually matters.
Techstars 312: 1st and foremost, I'm a venture-backed founder, just like you guys. My 1st company raised 24 million dollars, reached 8 million dollars in successfully acquired by Sc. Johnson. That was my 1st adventure. Since then I've started 3 more companies. I'm currently running one. Right now. We're going to talk more in detail about what that company is and how we're operating that company right now. But in between I worked at 2 venture funds. I've mentored hundreds of startups through techstars, and I'm a professor of entrepreneurship at telak school of business.
Techstars 312: I've seen this movie before. It's a great movie.
Techstars 312: It's kind of a horror movie shit happens along the way where, like horrible things happen to Stardus. And I've just seen it over and over and over and over again.
Techstars 312: I'm not some armchair academic like. I don't live in some corner office in some university department somewhere. Hi, there you're laying. Have a seat. But the things I want to share with you guys today is stuff that I do.
Techstars 312: I am a founder 1st and foremost, like, yes, I care about startups. I care about investing in them. I care about founders from the bottom of my heart, but at the end of the day. I'm an operator, just like you guys. So the stuff I'm sharing with you guys isn't some stuff I read in a book somewhere or like. Well, the research shows that startups should. Well, who cares?
Techstars 312: I'm gonna tell you guys stuff that I am doing.
Techstars 312: And I have the receipts. I have the results to back it up.
Techstars 312: There are 3 core beliefs that I have when it comes to building startups
Techstars 312: each hour. Long session today is going to be digging deep into one of those concepts.
Techstars 312: They're not rocket science concept number one. You should be really fucking good at sales. You should sell the shit out of your product, and there's a craft to sell it.
Techstars 312: You can be good at selling. You can also suck at selling. You cannot absolve yourself from the responsibility of being an extremely good seller as a skill set as an entrepreneur. There's no such thing as like bad salesperson, good entrepreneur, that's not saying, I'm a good basketball player, but you know
Techstars 312: I don't really play with the ball like, no, that's your job. You have to be really good at sales principle number one principle number 2. You shouldn't spend money on shit. You shouldn't spend money on anything like resourcefulness is the goal. There are things in this world that cost money, you do not have a right to access them yet
Techstars 312: you should build your company as scrappily as possible other than paying yourself. Don't spend money on anything, and number 3, and perhaps the most important one. That's why we saved it to the last.
Techstars 312: You should be creating a ridiculous amount of value for your customers. There's nothing that matters more. But ultimately you exist for a reason. You exist to create an outsized amount of value for your customers. That's your right to exist as a startup. Do that well, everything else will go right. Do that bad. It doesn't matter how good you are in not spending money or how good you are in sales. Nothing matters product over anything.
Techstars 312: So far. So good. Yeah, hopefully, I'm not saying anything that's too out of left field. If you disagree with what I'm saying, please raise your hand. If you're part of the zoom, call DM. Chloe, I'm not going to be checking the chat or stuff like that. The volume is turned off so I don't hear you or anything like this. But if you DM. Chloe, she'll raise your hand. Okay, my current company 2, 4, 8.ai.
Techstars 312: We build insanely custom AI agents for fortune, 500 companies. So if you're a big business like Hertz, or something like Car Rental company, and you want some custom injected application. You come to my business and we build it for you. We built our own SDK, to make these things go fast. We also integrate with all AI tools known to man. And I'm in this world just as much as you guys, I've written a little bit of the companies and their descriptions of who you guys are selling to. You guys are all AI companies as well, you guys are all selling to businesses. Fantastic. We're in this world together.
Techstars 312: Here's my reality.
Techstars 312: We're a team of 5. There's 5 people in my team, including me and my co-founder. All these 5, we raised $0 today. So everything about to share with you guys has been done with $0 in investment. I'm the only salesperson. I have 3 engineers on the team. I am an engineer myself, although I don't write as much code, and we just hired one Ops person last week
Techstars 312: as the only salesperson, I've generated 1.2 $208,109 in total sales between June 2023. And today I take great pride in this number. I've generated this with using nothing but loom and Linkedin and emails. So can you.
Techstars 312: The principles that I'm going to share with you guys today don't require for you to have a giant sales team don't require for you guys to have like fancy sales, tools. They're principles that simply things that I operate under, and how you do anything is how you do everything. You're going to hear me say this over and over and over again. Today you got a question. Go ahead.
Techstars 312: What is the what do you define as sales?
Techstars 312: I do something for a customer. They give me money. So you you've gotten 1.2.
Techstars 312: You just need money in your bank account. I spent some of it. But yeah, it means money in the bank, I mean money in the bank.
Techstars 312: This isn't like
Techstars 312: all this money I made is in my pocket. It's awesome. And the important number. Here is also this number. I'm not selling $100 worth of product, but actually, it cost me 90 bucks to fulfill. So my actual sales is 10. No, this is like actual money that customers have paid me for me to do some stuff for them. Some of it is a term. Some of it's a 1 time it doesn't matter. The point is that it's progress.
Techstars 312: With this measure of revenue. We've learned a ton. We've built products that our customers wanted. This is skill that I want to share with you guys.
Techstars 312: Okay.
Techstars 312: let's start with sort of like, how I think about sales in general like, what is this thing in sales like? What is? What are the actual things that we do when we sell to businesses? Well.
Techstars 312: imagine this, we're selling bridges
Techstars 312: like, imagine your product. I know you guys sell different stuff. But imagine for a second that your product is a bridge.
Techstars 312: We can sell this bridge in a number of different ways.
Techstars 312: like one. For example, one format of selling this bridge. Let's say you're in the market for bridges.
Techstars 312: I need a bridge for my backyard. Well, I can come and tell you, hey, our bridges are amazing. They're made up of like mahogany wood, and the rib is stainless steel. It's amazing. And the ropes there's actually a whole village in Turkey where I'm from. I'm from Turkey. There's a whole village they hand weave these ropes. It's like our bridges are amazing. They just use these ropes. I can talk about sort of like what the bridge is made up of.
Techstars 312: This is called feature selling a lot of you. I'm sure you already do this. You talk about your product. Maybe it's blue. It's on the blockchain. Oh, that uses cloth 3.5. Like as the model, it's all multi-tenant. You can text it and email it. You talk about the stuff that your bridge is made up of
Techstars 312: this is good, it's not, it's not great.
Techstars 312: There's another version that we can sell the same bridge. I can say that, hey? Don't worry about what the bridge is made up of it can hold 2,000 pounds. I guarantee it, and you know we're going to come and do this thing end to end. We're going to come in. We're going to install the bridge. You're not going to have to lift a finger by this date. You're going to have a bridge up and running in your backyard.
Techstars 312: But
Techstars 312: but it's slightly better, because if the customer doesn't care about your features right, the customer cares about the solution that you're putting in front of them. This is called solution selling like end to end. Hey, we just do this thing for you.
Techstars 312: This is better. It's directionally correct. But here's the best way to celebrate. And here's how you should be selling your products.
Techstars 312: See that little bridge over there? There's a waterfall at the other end of that bridge.
Techstars 312: No one's seen that waterfall yet. This has never been a bridge in this place ever before.
Techstars 312: It's gonna be slow. It's gonna be expensive.
Techstars 312: But I'm gonna show you the waterfall, are you in?
Techstars 312: Doesn't matter if I get you there with a helicopter doesn't matter if it's a bridge, and if it's teleportation
Techstars 312: they're selling the waterfall.
Techstars 312: This is called outcome selling.
Techstars 312: You'll ultimately start with the job. I know this is what Neil tries to repeatedly share with you guys, there's ultimately a customer has a job that needs to be done. It doesn't matter if your solution is blue or pink, or if there's rivets, or ropes or wood.
Techstars 312: they care about the outcome being done for them. So the 1st principle
Techstars 312: is that you have to deeply believe that you are the most qualified person on the planet to deliver that outcome for your customer.
Techstars 312: I want to repeat this. It sounds really obvious.
Techstars 312: if you have self-doubt that you are not the best person to deliver this outcome for your customers. Stop what you do, and do something else.
Techstars 312: The world is already against you.
Techstars 312: I don't care much for if your solution has bugs right now, I don't care much if your team doesn't exactly have all the capabilities, but you need to say, hey, customer, I'm going to walk through mountains to show you that fucking waterfall, whatever the waterfall is for that customer like this is our starting point.
Techstars 312: and if you have doubts in that belief, fix those
Techstars 312: like. Don't sell your stuff. Don't. Don't sell the thing. If you deep down the side. Note that you can fulfill that outcome for your customer, and I'm not saying, Make up stuff here. This is really important. When you sit down with your customers. You should never lie.
Techstars 312: you should say, Hey, customer.
Techstars 312: you're gonna be my 1st person to work with. You're getting 3 geniuses to deliver this outcome for you for the price of a product. You're welcome like we're only gonna do this with 2 customers. You get to be one of them
Techstars 312: like this level of like honesty. Upfront is really really critical. And you're basically coming in and saying, like, Look, this is my current approach. But if that approach doesn't work. I will tell you that it doesn't work. I'm going to come up with the other approach.
Techstars 312: This is what early adopters are buying. If you ever saw that fancy curve of like. There's early adopters in the middle of the market, and there's the late adopters, like people, will never buy anything any given market. Even if you're selling to car dealerships or law firms. Every market has this people. They have the early adopters. They have the middle of the market, and they have people who never buy shit, no matter what
Techstars 312: the early doctors are buying your brain. They're not buying the product. They are not idiots. They don't want to try new stuff. These people have business outcomes that should be fulfilled, and you're there to fulfill it for them.
Techstars 312: Are we? Good? So far, okay.
Techstars 312: sales teams work with, go. Oh, go ahead.
Techstars 312: You don't really, that you want things that's going.
Techstars 312: You walk us through.
Techstars 312: for example. Let's 1 of the products that my company sells is called out. So we do this ad agents that do super niche cold emails. So they'll do research. They'll write the messages and they'll reach out to prospect.
Techstars 312: If my last customer was telling me, Hey, the emails that you guys are sending are all, and they don't stand.
Techstars 312: And I know that as a factual bit of data, I shouldn't just go to the next customer and say, my whole email is bomb.com. That doesn't compute.
Techstars 312: I should go back to the team and say, like, Hey, team! I'm not selling this shit until it has fixed deliverability. I'm not selling it. I shouldn't be selling it like this is a core value delivery. Now, here's an unknown next customer. I have deliverability in my back pocket. I don't have the campaign yet. I don't know what this AI agent is going to do. That's okay. I can say to the customer, Hey, I'm going to figure that out. But I cannot come to you with a conscious mind that the product is absolute trash. It literally doesn't do what it says on the box. I can't go to the customer and say, Hey, I'm gonna like you will just magically happen.
Techstars 312: This is a little honest 1st kind of approach, and, for instance, like
Techstars 312: building something that another tool way more involved is solving as well. You believe that your solution is the right one, and it has major thing that are better at. But still there's like 2 or 3 companies that are way ahead.
Techstars 312: So
Techstars 312: like, how do you say the customer use the competition? If you truly are not differentiated that the competition doesn't further, you want to use this.
Techstars 312: Okay, build something different. Do something better.
Techstars 312: We're going to get to competition later in this session. There's a very specific way to deal with this
Techstars 312: 1st thing that I want to share before I get into tactical stuff. Sales, teams, work with gods. Okay.
Techstars 312: want you guys to raise your hand in the room? If you're the Vp of sales for your startup.
Techstars 312: Fantastic. You guys have goals
Techstars 312: great, awesome. If you don't. Job number one, set the goal. Now, it's very hard as an early stage start to set a sales goal. You don't know. You don't know what your sales activities should be in order to drive a certain outcome. But here's 1 thing that I want everybody to put their hand under the rock. You should have outreach goals.
Techstars 312: you should say to yourself, I'm going to reach out to this many people, whatever that form of outreach is, whether it's cold calling, whether it's dming people, whether it's emailing people. I don't care. Outreach doesn't care about conversion rates. You can say to yourself and hold yourself accountable to the rest of your team that you're going to do a certain amount of outreach. Here's what that leads to.
Techstars 312: Outreach leads to Demos, very straightforward. No one's gonna ask you for a demo. Stop waiting for an inbound lead to come and find you. They won't. If they do, that's great bonus.
Techstars 312: Nobody cares. Nobody knows you exist.
Techstars 312: Outreach leads to Demos. Demos lead to decisions. Some of these people you show your product to will be like, Hey, you know what you seem pretty qualified. I want to work with you. Fantastic decisions lead to customers.
Techstars 312: There's a difference between somebody deciding to work with you versus somebody becoming a customer. There's a lot of shit that needs to happen in between
Techstars 312: customers lead to progress. This is why we're here. You do not earn progress with your startup unless you have customers. What happens in your brain is irrelevant. You're not as smart as you think. The world outside doesn't care about your sort of worldview about your how this is, how things should work, but none of that shit matters.
Techstars 312: It's all about your customers. It's all about the progress that your customers are demanding from you, and unless you have a signed customer who said that I have bought the rights to be your customer with my hard-earned dollars. Other people's opinions also don't matter. Like you talk to a prospect, they tell you whatever. Okay, great. I hear you. I'm gonna listen to the person who's actually paying me.
Techstars 312: The person who's paying his opinion matters the most ultimately in everything that you do in your business progress is not possible without customers.
Techstars 312: There are 5 parts of A, B, 2 B. Sale, 5. Individual battles. You have to win
Techstars 312: battle number one, the list you have to make a list.
Techstars 312: Battle number 2. You have to kill the fucking demo. You have to give a demo that's like you should feel stupid, not to say yes to
Techstars 312: to close a deal, get consensus around the table to say like, Yes, this is something that we want to do.
Techstars 312: Fulfill the order. This is a sales job. You should make sure that the customers who have bought the outcome from you get the outcome that you delivered that's going to be your biggest sales tool, and once you've done one through 4, you should build a team, and we're going to get specifically into when you should be thinking about hiring a team. Right now. The team is you. But there's some thoughts to share around there
Techstars 312: in the sales team.
Techstars 312: Okay, did it? The answer is the list. The list is the 1st goal. So the list is a giant spreadsheet of websites, company, name, company, domain.
Techstars 312: These are the businesses that I can sell to. These are the businesses that I'm going to target over the course of the next 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, 6 months year. I don't care. It is a predefined list of targets. These are the people that I can help. Now, it's really critical how you should start from it. This is the theoretical list. That's a useful exercise. Right? You can sit down and debate like who should be our Icp. What kinds of companies that we can sell? Maybe this law firms of like 50 people or less, whatever that's helpful.
Techstars 312: I have a different idea of how this should start.
Techstars 312: The simple rule of this list is that these are the people that we're going to contact. People who are unaware of. You will simply not buy from you. This initial list
Techstars 312: should be made up of people that you already know.
Techstars 312: The question that we're going to ask these people is one question. Everybody in this list are going to get one question.
Techstars 312: Will you let me do this job for you?
Techstars 312: You have a job I am applying for that job like. In other words, you have a specific problem that demands solving.
Techstars 312: May I solve this problem for you like I'll tell you like the greatest outreach in my in my mind I saw this example in like a cold email workshop.
Techstars 312: Imagine my company fixes potholes in back in sort of parking lots.
Techstars 312: I read a review in a company's yelp page, restaurant's yelp page of somebody complaining about man. I just got a flat tire in the parking lot.
Techstars 312: I take a screenshot of that review. I email, the restaurant owner and say, hey, I noticed you have a pothole in your backyard. I'm the world's greatest pothole fixer. Can I fix it for you?
Techstars 312: This is it. This is what we're trying to do, whatever your pothole is, whatever the waterfall is, for you, replace it with your customer and say, like, Hey, you have this problem. I'm very qualified to solve this problem. Can I solve this problem for you? That's all we're trying to do. Can I help? Is the the most powerful sales question.
Techstars 312: Now.
Techstars 312: this starting point, let's set an arbitrary number is a thousand people, companies and a thousand people in those companies. Where will they come from? Well, I believe you already know these people sounds crazy. There's a lot of people.
Techstars 312: The way to get started
Techstars 312: is understanding that a warm connection is way more valuable than a cold outreach. And here's a warm connection. Go download your entire contact list on Linkedin. Everyone you're ever connected with everyone that ever follows. You do the same thing for Instagram, do the same thing for Facebook, do the same thing for Google. Contacts do the same thing for your phone book. There's at least 1520,000 people that you've met ever in your life, all of you. Here are adults. You've met hundreds and thousands of people over the course of your lifetime.
Techstars 312: I want you to go line by line, while that one weird person that was in my high school class now turns out to be Vp of Ops in this, whatever startup line by line. What do these people do? Where are they right now? And fundamental question, can I help this person with what I'm thinking about doing line by line, every single person that we know. That's your starting point.
Techstars 312: and you'll be shocked how far that list gets you, most of them. And, by the way, like someone you've talked to once 10 years ago, is still a warmer connection than that person hearing from you. Cold
Techstars 312: university alumni are awesome. Techstars. Alumni are awesome like you're not part of the tech Stars network. People reach out to other tech stars companies or reach out to people who used to work at a Tech Stars company. Now that works at another company.
Techstars 312: these are the kinds of people that we're after right now for that initial list. And again, the outreach to those people is like, Hey, I'm doing something new. Can I help you? It's a really sort of like low barrier of entry form of outreach. Is that making sense?
Techstars 312: Are you guys already doing this?
Techstars 312: Okay, fantastic, do it for everybody that you know, and once you've done yours, do it for everybody in your co-founding team go through all of their Linkedin connections, go through all of their contact information, go through all their gmail contacts. This is a phenomenally rich resource that most people don't use.
Techstars 312: You have to pick the outbound motion that you're comfortable doing over and over again. So I've been using cold email as an example in this conversation so far, I view cold email equivalent as cold calling as you, making content on Linkedin as you sending people Linkedin, DM. Messages, you networking yourself in a trade show whatever it is. Every form of outbound works
Techstars 312: you have to be willing to do it over and over again to get it. Good. If you're going to do Linkedin content. Okay, great. Commit to doing Linkedin content for the next 90 days and do it every single day. If you're going to do cold call. Okay? Set aside 3 h in the morning, pick up the phone coast to coast.
Techstars 312: Whatever it is, there's a good chance that it's not going to work right away, but you have to get good at it and stop blaming the motion. People do this like, oh, cold calling doesn't work in my industry. I can bet you I will find a company in your exact space that is absolutely bodying with cold calling. This isn't the fault of the motion itself. You're likely not doing it right, like I gave the example on cold emailing. If you don't send a cold email and revolution is going to end up in spam.
Techstars 312: So is it really the whole email tool? Or it's just you just didn't set it up properly.
Techstars 312: So like be one to do it over and over again to improve it over time, but also seek the expertise to get it done right. I'm not saying, Go, hire consultants for thousands, thousands. Just learn it, whatever it is that to get it done right, learn it, learn how to do it. Well, everything is learnable in the world of startups. You're a tech company. Figure it out.
Techstars 312: but what I don't want to hear is like, Oh, my cold email, nobody buys with cold email. It sickens me. What I hear like startups complaining about like it's the motion's fault, not my fault. I'm like, cold email doesn't work. How many people did you email last month? 5. Okay, you're an idiot like, what do you want to do you're like that's not cold email. That's you.
Techstars 312: Once you sort of determine that. Okay, I know I have a blocked out. These people are showing up on the phones when I call them. They're just not interested. Don't also chase down dead ends. This is the delta around like having meaningful sample sizes.
Techstars 312: If you have a long enough warm connection list, you'll be able to test a ton of these theories, whether it's cold calling, whether it's cold emailing and the goal setting. And the accountability to the rest of your team determines this idea. Okay, we're at a dead end here, like, I've done cold emails now for like 10,000 contacts. We're going to have to move on to some other avenue. The ultimate benchmark here that matters is whether you'll be able to generate sales or not.
Techstars 312: Benchmarking is important because you should sort of like have a starting idea of what's working. These are benchmarks for emails, for example, for B, 2 B companies. For truly cold email, one in 300 is good. I reach out to 300 absolute frozen contacts. One of them turned out to be a positive, qualified demo, whether they say yes or no, it doesn't matter.
Techstars 312: One in 300 is good. If you're anywhere below one in a hundred. It's phenomenal.
Techstars 312: But you have a starting point, like, if you say, like, hey to the rest of the team in our weekly business review, I'm telling you guys that I'm going to be sending some cold emails. I have this much in my pool. My expected value. My, Ev, is this, many demos like, we will know this is working. If we generated 10 demos from this from this setup it could be trade shows. For example, I have to debate when one of you went to a trade show last week who went to a trade show?
Techstars 312: Get it?
Techstars 312: What was the goal? Why did you go to build connections in the industry.
Techstars 312: But how many Demos did you say I'm gonna set up as a result of going to the straight show?
Techstars 312: So this is something that I want you guys to have a spidey sense for
Techstars 312: it ultimately cost you money to go there. It costs you time. It costs you flights. It costs you attending tickets, whatever you say, hey? I'm investing
Techstars 312: $4,300 for this thing. My expected result is 10 Demos, and I'm going to close one of those demos.
Techstars 312: 10% conversion rate. Just make it up. It doesn't matter. I know you don't have this number. I know you don't know how many demos you need to close the deal. It doesn't matter.
Techstars 312: But you say to yourself, the math here is math, because each customer to me is worth $10,000. I'm gonna have 10 Demos. One of them is going to turn to a customer. So I spent 4 to make time good deal.
Techstars 312: But I want to build. Brand awareness is not a good reason to go to a trade show.
Techstars 312: and it's not a sort of a responsible use for the limited time and money that you have in the bank. This is why I love this sort of like. Even your title as a CEO should act as the Vp of sales, because ultimately it's about the outcomes you deliver to your team for the investments that you're making. Does that make sense
Techstars 312: whatever? But like you. This is someone that I can help.
Techstars 312: and they're on the phone with me. They may decide otherwise.
Techstars 312: Now all the benchmark that matters is a sale. I'm just saying this is a starting point, like.
Techstars 312: ultimately you should chase the sale like, who cares? What if I have 100 demos set through a call out, none of our closing none of this matters. But ultimately, in order to get to the sale, you sort of do this like sort of this building and and demo setting exercise.
Techstars 312: Okay.
Techstars 312: now, let's assume that you guys have some form of outbound motion. By the way, we're going to get through this really quickly. I'm getting better in the next, like 1520 min of just like going through these bullet points. I do want to workshop some of this stuff with you guys. Okay, like, how do we set up Demos with law firms, with car dealerships, with B, 2 P. Size sales companies, whatever that is.
Techstars 312: But let's say we have now this like somewhat repeatable outbound motion that sets up meetings for me and my team. I can. I can get myself in front of the customer. We're at the demo. What should we do? Okay, there's certain principles.
Techstars 312: Number One.
Techstars 312: Acknowledge that while you're talking to a prospect they have not made a decision to buy. Yet you might believe in your heart. I know I can help this person. There's still a decision that has to be made.
Techstars 312: It is very unlikely that that simply will happen simply with you rattling off your features and benefits as a customer. You have to deeply understand this prospect, and why they're there. To begin with.
Techstars 312: you can always be more prepared for the meeting. This is something I want. You guys sort of like tattoo across the the chest.
Techstars 312: Who's showing up for this meeting? Where do they work in the past?
Techstars 312: Do they have a budget amount? What is the cost of this problem from the foreseeable data that I have access to on the Internet about this about this company like they're setting up.
Techstars 312: They're joining this demo for a reason. How much can I find out as humanly possible by reading every Linkedin post ever written by this company? It's a public company. I'm going to go to their quarterly earnings calls. I'm going to go to the CEO's twitter. I'm going to find whatever it is that I can find out about this. I'm going to find out. I'm going to put that into a cheat sheet. I'm going to distribute anyone in the team and say, like, Hey, team! Everybody ingest this document before showing up to this demo like, imagine these 2 scenarios, one scenario.
Techstars 312: You're a buyer. Forget that you're selling stuff. You're the buyer.
Techstars 312: You show up. You try to buy something from some company
Techstars 312: you show up to the demo. The rep is late, but they're like they dialed into the zoom at 2 0, 4 like they're like 4 min late, you know. So like the laggards, there's no set agenda. They're asking you questions that are like, oh, so like. Where are you calling from, bitch? I'm on Linkedin. Look up where I am. Why are you asking me where I'm from? Like? Look it up.
Techstars 312: Compare that to you. Show up. Everyone's early to the meeting. There's a set agenda fuck the small talk. Let's jump right in. I know you have this problem, we can fix it for you. Here's our qualifications. Which one are you buying from?
Techstars 312: Be the vendor you like to buy from? This is as straightforward as a guess, you can always be more prepared for this meeting. It's like, show up to the meeting as if your life depends on it, like you're earning the right to help this customer. What a privilege!
Techstars 312: Serve before you sell! This is really critical.
Techstars 312: I want you guys to be in this like, I want to be as helpful as possible mode like I want to be as helpful as possible to my customer, and to that end I'm going to help as much as I can with resources sharing my list of competition. Hey? I know I'm trying to do. Xyz. My product does that. Here's a free version of that like you can get it done free. If you just couple together these 4 solutions. Here you go. Here's a playbook. Just do it yourself. If you don't want me to do it.
Techstars 312: Help out as much as possible. You're really trust me.
Techstars 312: People don't want to do shit by themselves. People don't want to work with their competitors. They want to work with someone that they trust.
Techstars 312: and you earn that trust by being as helpful as humanly possible during this process before they decide to work with you.
Techstars 312: you should be the persona of a seller that basically says, Look, all I care about is one thing I care about your job being done, whether you do it through me or through someone else. It's actually my secondary concern. I would be honored if you work with me. But ultimately I need your problem to be solved. That is why I exist in this world.
Techstars 312: I don't know about you guys I want to buy from this person. But that person is invested. That person deeply cares. You can't really fake that level of commitment. You have to the problem, so much so that you're literally saying like, this competitor also does this. They do A, B and C, they're the best in the world for it. Maybe you should work with them. Imagine that dynamic you created with your buyer. If you come in there with this level of transparency.
Techstars 312: your job as a seller, as part of these conversations is actually to not convince anybody of anything.
Techstars 312: Your job is to find a good buyer.
Techstars 312: a lot of yourself businesses that are a lot bigger than your business hundreds, if not thousands, of people working these companies.
Techstars 312: I would argue that in a company of a thousand people there's probably 50 people who are good buyers. What I mean by that is that they know how to navigate the contracts system. They know how to approve budgets, they know how to avoid the naysayers. There's like this asshole in it who shuts down every shit. These people will know how to navigate it, so that person never finds out that this is happening in the back end. Good buyers is how deals get done.
Techstars 312: You find good buyers by asking good questions.
Techstars 312: A lot of like early stage sellers sort of founders because the demos are rare. You get happy years, you're like, Oh, my God! Like this person finally finally pays attention to me, and if they work at this like Aura, they the rate company. It's amazing
Techstars 312: if that person you're talking to has never bought anything at your scale. You're wasting your time.
Techstars 312: Never underestimate the ability for people who work in large companies to tremendously waste their and your time.
Techstars 312: It's
Techstars 312: incredible. My 1st company swipes we sold the hospitals like we'll be in these sales cycles that are like 7 months, 8 months, and I'd be like, well, this feels like they're wasting my time, but like they're also wasting their time like they wouldn't be wasting their time like they're asking me to do all the stuff they're asking me to set up the next meeting whatever. But, like
Techstars 312: I can't be wasting their time dude. They're wasting their time. There's so many people in these companies who just show up to work. 9 o'clock. They check out at 4 o'clock. They fuck off. They're done like time wasters, and think about it as well from your past experiences. Most people show up to work, and they're given a set of tools you're going to use slack. You're going to use, Jira. You're going to use this tool that we do, whatever very few people show up to work and be like. You know what I need. A new Crm. Let me go make that happen. Let me go through the bargain
Techstars 312: list of actually changing infrastructure in this company. Most people don't want to deal with that. Most people just want to do their job, get their promotion, spend the weekend with their kids. That is what people's animals are.
Techstars 312: Buyers in companies are worth their weight in gold.
Techstars 312: Now.
Techstars 312: one of the things you can do that doesn't matter. Who you're talking to is you can be insanely responsible.
Techstars 312: What I mean by that is that you can take time and respond to an inbound prospects email in single digit minutes.
Techstars 312: This is what I said about earlier about people who show up to sales meeting, or like locked on, ready to go. Everything is all set. Imagine a prospect is asking you a question.
Techstars 312: and they see that you're responding in literally 4 min. On average, like you should have the spidey sense. I'm always checking my email whether I'm in a meeting or not. I know you're not supposed to. I'm doing it right now in this meeting. If a prospect emails you, you have my blessing, permission and high 5 to respond to them in single digit messages, single digit minutes.
Techstars 312: Just imagine you're dealing with someone like this. You email them at like 8 o'clock at night, and they write back 8.0 5. I don't know about you guys. I've been working with these people. Go ahead. You ask a question. This gives us the next slide.
Techstars 312: Go ahead.
Techstars 312: My only counter to be insanely responsive is
Techstars 312: my answer. That is right. After 5 min, or even 30 seconds of thinking about the question.
Techstars 312: the only good answer I can provide is, I acknowledge that you exist. But at the same time I like to
Techstars 312: kind of impacting people.
Techstars 312: Is it working? Is you avoid over contact with people. Okay, I'm telling you it does work for me. That's it. That's the difference of opinion I'm telling you right now. There are people telling you should have no work life balance. You should not check your email on the weekends. I do. And I want to buy from people who do. I want to buy from people to get back to me right away. I want people to not sleep, not eat, not shit. I want them to do all my case.
Techstars 312: This is what I want, and that's what I'm sharing with you guys. I take pride in being ridiculously responsive to my prospects. And yes, I'm obsessed. The company's called 24, 8. It's because we work 24, 8. That's the mantra. And like, I don't mind contacting people all the time, and I don't mind that they contact me. And again, this is simply a matter of preference.
Techstars 312: You have to know your product code.
Techstars 312: It's my one of my biggest pet peeves when founders.
Techstars 312: They are in this role of sales, but they advocate the responsibility of knowing every in and out of the product to the technical team.
Techstars 312: No.
Techstars 312: when I was selling my 1st company like swine sense, I mean, I had done everything that includes installing the product in the hospitals. I knew everything there was to know about increasing energy compliance in hospitals in my current company. 248. If a new model drops. I've already run it on my computer like they did say, run it next day like you have to be obsessed about how your product works. There should be no question that anyone can ask you in a demo that throws you off, although I haven't really thought of that before.
Techstars 312: Like, if that happens, I should be in a miracle. I should be like Oh, my God! Thank you, my God! You gave me a question that I didn't know the answer to fantastic. I'm going to find out the shit out of that. And so I'm never in this situation ever again. This applies to. By the way, during fundraising as well. You have to know your shit. There's no excuse on this. And, by the way, you can't make up these answers, you have to know know your product. People will ask.
Techstars 312: This is a really fantastic question to start every day. What intrigued you to take this meeting with us today? They will tell you they'll tell you the job. You will realize once you start asking this question as a second nature, nobody will start telling you like, well, your website was blue. It looks like you guys are doing AI products with 3 second latency whatever. No one's going to start talking about your features and benefits. They're going to talk about. Well, I got this negative problem, and I'm wondering if you guys can help to solve it for us.
Techstars 312: This should be the starting question for every single demo that you guys sign up for period. What intrigued you? This would be the tattoo on my arm. What intrigued you to take this meeting with us today. Why are you here? What problem are we solving for you? No problem, no sale.
Techstars 312: The quality of your questions determines your sales ability. That's how you find a good buyer.
Techstars 312: When do you want to solve this problem, Michael, what have you attempted in the past?
Techstars 312: Have you bought a software solution at this price point ever before.
Techstars 312: Oh, no, you haven't.
Techstars 312: Do the person you report to have. They bought a solution like this schedule a 15 min check with them. So we can see this process end to end. What does the legal review look like? Do we have to go through it real. Do we need any kind of additional approvals from the C-suite? Do we need additional stakeholders to approve a budget at this level?
Techstars 312: Buyers know the answer to these questions, you should ask them
Techstars 312: your ability to ask these open-ended questions, get you closer to the good buy. And I would view a good seller as someone who asks extraordinary questions. They are incisive. They don't just ask yes or no questions. They ask open-ended questions. Why are you doing this? What have you attempted in the past. What sucked about that competitor that you guys are no longer using? Tell me, I need more information
Techstars 312: now, as important as it is for you to ask good questions.
Techstars 312: It's just as important to listen to the questions that your prospects are asking you. You know what people do. We're about to buy stuff. They ask questions
Techstars 312: they ask you, do you do? XY, and Z. Can you start at this date if we have this situation? How does your product respond? Can you do sales salesforce integration? How long does that take? Do you guys have an extra implementation fee? If your prospects aren't asking you anything you should move on, you should go walk away. They're not going to buy like buyers, ask questions so as important as it is to ask questions. It's also important to listen to the questions that they're asking. So far, so good.
Techstars 312: Or and when I say, you're gonna be consulting. But I touched on this earlier.
Techstars 312: You're ultimately in the business of showing people waterfalls. And what that means is that you might have to rebuild your product from scratch. If it solves a problem for your customer.
Techstars 312: Hello! You're doing it like your buyers are buying consulting services from you. That looks like a product, and you should be building your product as a result of this consultative service like, Hey, look! We're doing this for the customers. Hyper custom for this prospect. I wonder if we can do it for other people, but embrace it, just say earn a customer. It's the deal of a lifetime you're going to get Mckinsey level consulting for the price of slack.
Techstars 312: It's an amazing deal for you
Techstars 312: if you don't want this deal, don't work with us. I don't have 10 customers that can be. References for you, like sometimes startup partners will be like all F. 4 like cancel moment whatever. Just so, you know, we don't have any.
Techstars 312: We look for the 1st one. We look for the one we look for, the one that we can go hell on high water to deliver this outcome, for are you with that people? And, by the way, not only are we gonna get this insane price. I'm also gonna get a referral from your, and we plan on being done in 90 days, are you with?
Techstars 312: If they say we don't want to take this risk, don't work with them. Go ahead. How do you balance this with with the Demos. Say, you did a demo. You gotta fix something up with the product. Continue your sales.
Techstars 312: Someone wants you want to show them something, but because you're building it, take screenshots, put it into a slideshow and say, Hey, this is not working yet. It'll be working in 2 weeks. I'll show it to you when it works. They don't care. They understand that your shit don't work. Don't worry. They're not idiots
Techstars 312: like they understand. You can just say, Okay, right now, we have the spot. I just took screenshots so I can make a point right now. So you see how this is going to work. Don't worry. I'm not gonna say anything until it works next question
Techstars 312: like, Be upfront. There's no need. There's no like all the demo guns. And whatever, if you're having to sort of like struggle with your demo crashing, or some shit, put it into a slide that move on
Techstars 312: like you care about your demo working, but you know what the customer cares about. They care about their outcome. They don't give a shit about your demo. They care if you're going to deliver the result that you set up to deliver for them. And, by the way, I'm using the demo here in replacing of like a discovery meeting whatever you want to call it like, I certainly don't think you need to have slides. You need to have a video. You need to have a working app, or you don't need none of that shit to close the sale. What you need is to demonstrate that you have the conviction to solve this problem for your customer.
Techstars 312: Stop fundraising when you sell a lot of early 6 founders fundraise when they sell, you talk about your perspectives on the industry, the market for blah blah is growing at X rates. The small leader said that every company by 2030 needs to transition into book. Nobody cares like when you're an early 6 funder, you spend a lot of time talking to investors. That's the sales job. You're selling future earnings to that investor.
Techstars 312: But unfortunately, that bleeds into the demos you start selling as if you're fundraising. You're basically like talking. No, none of that stuff matters talk about the customer's priorities. They don't care about your point of view. They don't care about your unique connections. They don't care that. Oh, Andres! Nor was invested in this company. Do you think they give a fuck like your customer cares about who your investors are. I've seen some of your websites like you talk about like backfire so and so whatever.
Techstars 312: If I'm the Vp of Ops in your prospect, do I care that you're backed by you? Or do I care that you actually are relevant to what I'm trying to do.
Techstars 312: Your other investors care about who you're backed by, not your prospects. So stop doing this. Talk about them. Talk about their priorities.
Techstars 312: This is key.
Techstars 312: This is the tattoo on the radar.
Techstars 312: If I'm in a meeting for 30 min.
Techstars 312: we're in minute 25 of the demo stop.
Techstars 312: hey? Looks like this is a fantastic meeting. Looks like we have a lot more to talk about. Why don't we pull up our calendars and schedule? The next meeting in the meeting in the last 5 min of the meeting.
Techstars 312: Let's go ahead and put it on the calendar as a placeholder. If we need to move it. We can move it. But I just wanna make sure we keep the ball rolling in here.
Techstars 312: You're not just getting people to decide on something that's good for them. You're also project managing the clothes.
Techstars 312: Every meeting should beget the next meeting.
Techstars 312: and if I'm reporting this to the rest of my team. You, as a head of sales should be in this mode reporting your progress to the rest of your team members. Eventually, you're gonna do this for a head of sales for your sales reps. I ask one question.
Techstars 312: when is the next meeting? So is it on the calendar? If it's not on the calendar. I kick that person out of the room. Go! Go! Get the next meeting. We don't have anything to talk about. Oh, we're scheduling it oh, so and so has to happen whatever. No, that deal is gone.
Techstars 312: Meetings have to be on the calendar in the meeting, and if they're not willing to schedule a meeting with you. Ask, why not? What's wrong? Don't you care about this problem being fixed for you? They will tell you that they aren't, that they don't have the budget approved. They don't have the sign up from the so and so great. We have not found a good buyer yet. Move on. You're not talking to the good buyer. Go ahead. You have a question.
Techstars 312: It sounds like a very interesting product. We want to test it.
Techstars 312: And I'm like, Yeah, let's schedule a meeting, you know, to report on this, and they're like, no, we want to test the team first, st
Techstars 312: and we don't know when we'll be able to do right.
Techstars 312: You basically say, Hey, there's a lot of complex setup that needs to happen. I want to make sure that the team is going to test against the outcomes that they're looking for. Question number one, why, you're testing what will determine the test to be successful
Techstars 312: like? Are you looking for someone to have accuracy. Are you looking for someone who has productivity? Are you looking for someone who had that pipeline demonstration? Maybe I can just show you that and waste save time from both sides. So what outcome are we looking for? And dude? Yeah, let's do a test. Let's schedule a time on the calendar. I'm going to be there. That's the only test that we do. Oh, you don't want me to be there. I guess you're not really wanting to buy this stuff. Okay, move on
Techstars 312: like, what's wrong with you being in the room when they're testing the product?
Techstars 312: If there's no answer to that question, they're just kicking the can down the road, and you gotta push back. I'm not saying they have to do anything. I'm just saying this is a signal that they're not real liars.
Techstars 312: You have to be on the same side of the table as your customer. This is the wholesaling point. You're ultimately a consultant helping this customer achieve this objective. You're not trying to sell them something that they don't need. You're not trying to be this like. Oh, but you're not trying to bully them into buying a product. Hey? All I'm doing is a stakeholder on the same side of the table as you. I just care about you solving this problem. If I can have the privilege of solving this problem for you. Fantastic, I'll be honored
Techstars 312: if I can't, I'm moving on. Why am I here like. I should only be here if I can help you achieve this objective. That means that there's no like face to face negotiation here. I'm on the same side of the table as you like. I want to make sure the demo is successful. Man. That's why I want to be in the room.
Techstars 312: You don't want it. Great. I'm moving on, too, like I want to. I want to work with people that can actually genuinely help.
Techstars 312: When people give you an objection. You should be curious.
Techstars 312: but when they say we we don't want to move forward
Techstars 312: like for XYZ. Reason
Techstars 312: inexpanish farmers get defensive. Oh, what are you talking about? You're wrong. We have the best deliverability in the whole market, whatever like you get a little insulted, you know, like Oh, but how come you don't acknowledge my genius that I built the best product ever you should work with me. Be curious.
Techstars 312: really? Why, what is it about the competition that's really helping you get that job done faster.
Techstars 312: This isn't to say that you should copy what your competitors are doing. You should never talk shit about your competition. Never like. There's no such thing as like that. Company sucks. They're fraudsters. You should never work with them. Never talk shit about them, you say, like, Hey, they do A, B, and C, really, really? Well, if that's what you want, you should go work with them. I'm on the same table as you.
Techstars 312: But if you're looking for demf, who in the world do I seem for it? And I'll be here. But you need demf, and here's why I believe you need de and F over A, B and C, but it's never to belittle or shit on your competition. It's all about what you do best in the world, and let the rest of the world be. You're ultimately looking to play a long game. You're looking forward to have people who have the specific problem that you can fix. Go ahead.
Techstars 312: How do you get your
Techstars 312: prospects to sort of talk about their objections of them to be like, yeah, okay, cool, amazing.
Techstars 312: What? How can you sense that? Maybe there's some apprehension to it? You want me to talk about the protection you ask for the sale, which is the close
Techstars 312: you should ask for the sale all the time
Techstars 312: you say, hey, I've shared with you what you learn. Why, mine?
Techstars 312: Where can we get started. What's your like? Are we? Is this in your budget that you're probably willing to move forward, and they will tell you not yet. They will tell you. No, they will tell you we're moving in another direction, whatever. That is
Techstars 312: key question to follow up after that. Why not?
Techstars 312: Why.
Techstars 312: it should be surprising to you like, oh, my God, I'm so super I'm so curious! Why would you not want to work with me? I'm the world's best.
Techstars 312: and there's a really big difference in here. I don't want you guys to be arrogant. An arrogant person says I'm the best, and there's nothing better for me to get better at ever again, like I'm best, and the journey has ended.
Techstars 312: A confident person says I'm the best, and I can always get better. I'm hungry. I'm looking to improve myself. I'm committed. I want you to be confident, never arrogant, but be confident that you're super qualified. So you should be genuinely surprised when they tell you we went with the blue solution, the Blue Magic. That's what we're going with.
Techstars 312: Oh, that's surprising. What do they do that we don't do.
Techstars 312: That's a really important bit of data. By the way, for you to take back to the product team. Hey, team! I talked to 10 people. 7 of them are going with blue magic. It's because it's blue. Maybe we should make our stuff blue, like what a concept like. Ask yourself objectively, is our stuff being blue. Move the needle further for our customers. Maybe all the prospects are colorblind and they only see blue, whatever it is. That's an important bit of data just because your competition is selling stuff. Blue doesn't mean that you should do shit your prospects telling you I'm going with competition a. Because their stuff is blue is golden bit of data.
Techstars 312: and you're relieving yourself from this incredible insight. If you don't ask the question.
Techstars 312: get to a yes or no. Maybe it's worth starting as I force the answer. Look, if you want to buy it great, just tell me no
Techstars 312: like whatever whatever. The answer is.
Techstars 312: if you schedule the next meeting you're going to get to the answer. If you don't schedule the meeting, then you're going to be in this like I've been reaching, trying to get a hold of them, and they're ghosting like they haven't gotten back to me. It has happened to every startup. It happens to you less if you schedule the next meeting on the calendar and just ask, be okay with getting a no and No as a yes, because I know it's followed by why not? A yes is obviously the best answer, and maybe it's terrible
Techstars 312: like forced to the answer. Just say, Hey, I really need an answer by Friday, if you can't get me an answer. That's okay. I'm moving on. I have other customers that want to work with you like you have to sort of like, give this kind of pace. They'd be okay with giving this kind of perspective. The customer
Techstars 312: you should ask for the sale to make this happen. A lot of us are scared about asking for the sale as in like, Hey, dude, I've shown you what I have. Can I help you for this price.
Techstars 312: Be okay with asking for this, like, there's a lot of like, you know, Youtube sales advice around like, Oh, you gotta have like 10. Yes, before you ask for the sale, or I don't give a shit. I will. I want you guys to ask for the sale right away.
Techstars 312: Ask it often, ask it over and over again, and be okay with getting a No as an answer. That's fine. But ask for the sale. Most of us just don't do this because it's a terrifying blight to be said. No, I know it just sucks. It's horrible to be said. No, like the fear of rejection goes back to your childhood right like. Yes, that shit is real.
Techstars 312: but you have to ask for the sale. Otherwise you're just not going to get it close, just like how someone who's unaware of you is not going to ever be a buyer for you. Someone whom you haven't asked for sale is not going to bring up for you to send the contract. That's what you wish would happen. It's just not going to happen. It's like waiting for an inbound lead
Techstars 312: for the sale.
Techstars 312: and when they ask for a discount, if they ask for a discount, always trade terms. Just say, like, Hey, you're asking for 20% discount. Okay, if I were to give you that 20% discount, can I get a solution by next Thursday?
Techstars 312: There are other pieces that you can negotiate in a deal you can say, Hey, will you be a reference for me.
Techstars 312: will you? Can I pass on the token fees to you like if I can get you this thing that you're asking me for. What will you give me in return? I'm never going to agree to a thing that you're asking me fantastic. That's a buyer. Signal buyers ask for discounts like I'm willing to buy. I just think it's a sweeter deal. I'm not saying say yes or no right away, even if it's a great deal for you to say yes, never say yes until you get a thing in return.
Techstars 312: It's because you're on the equal level with your prospect here. You're not self serving to them. You're also. You're not also their bully, like you're on the same level. We're on the same side of the table. If I can get you this discount, what will you get me? If you're equals? You should be perfectly fine asking for this kind of trade off. Does that make sense
Techstars 312: when you have the sale? Shut the fuck up? I should have added that in the slide
Techstars 312: this is something that has to do over and over again. Customer has said, Okay, yes, we're moving forward.
Techstars 312: And because you're so used to like talking about your features and your solution you bring up more shit about. Oh, by the way, you will never get sued with our solution.
Techstars 312: What we're going to get sued. What what do you mean? We're never going to get sued. But why are you introducing extra information when a decision is made? Close the fucker close the deal just just close it
Techstars 312: when a decision is made. The sales happen in 2 parts. There's convincing people, hey? I want to earn the right to help you.
Techstars 312: and then project managing the clothes.
Techstars 312: But okay, you made a decision already. Okay, drop everything.
Techstars 312: Let's set an end date in mind, Band-aid Kickoff.
Techstars 312: the kickoff of our solution being implemented.
Techstars 312: That's our deadline.
Techstars 312: Even better.
Techstars 312: The results are you looking for? We're looking to improve our conversion rates by 20%. We want to have better inbound conversion rates. We want to have more car buyers become car buyers. Whatever the outcome is, whatever the job is. What do you need that done by.
Techstars 312: I need it. Done by June first.st Okay. Awesome. In order for me to deliver that. That means we should start implementation by April first.st Okay, are you? Are you all good? With that? It's gonna take us 2 or 3 months to implement. Okay? Awesome. In order for us to start implementation by April first.st I need a contract signed by March 15th latest. Are you guys? Good with that? If that's not good we might have to move some dates around. But you're kicking off your deadline. Don't like it ain't me it ain't like.
Techstars 312: Are you really wanting to get this done by June first? st It's a project management job. You're herding the cats. Oh, so we need a signature by March 15.th Okay, what needs to happen? Do I need to get a legal review. Do I need to get much of sign up from the Cfo. Do I need it to sign up on this? Whatever it is you're selling to a business. There are certain checks and balances that they have in place. A good buyer will tell you what those checks and balances are. You need them done by a certain date work backwards.
Techstars 312: But the end date is a customer priority. It ain't your end of the month
Techstars 312: even. I have a fundraising meeting coming up. It would be great to have a signed contract by them. They do not care. It ain't your priorities, it's their priorities only deadline. That matter is a customer deadline.
Techstars 312: and that deadline should be set by the objective that you set out to deliver for that customer.
Techstars 312: This is how you push these deals through. This is how you get someone to stay in the office at 4 pm. On a Friday to punch through a signature. So it's not done on a Monday. If it's their priorities, they do not care that you have a board meeting coming up. I cannot emphasize this. Enough people will be like, oh, my God, Demo day is coming up! I'm going to talk to my customer that it would be awesome to talk about Demo Day. Do you think your customer gives a shit about your demo day. They don't. They care about their next promotion. I need you guys to be in this mindset. It's about them, not you.
Techstars 312: You should be on an SMS basis with your buyer. The second, the decision is made. Hey? Can I get your cell phone? Just ask.
Techstars 312: I just want your cell phone number.
Techstars 312: They'd be like, why do you need it? I want to be Mega responsive to you in case you need something extra last minute. I want to be able to get to you right away. I always check my email. But I'm way more responsive in text. I want us to have a back and forth with us in this critical component, we need to sign by March 15.th So in order for us to do that, we might have to go like trade on terms last minute. I want to be able to get a hold of you. If you're not on SMS basis with your buyer. The good buyer. Good buyers will give you happily their cell phone number, by the way, because they want your cell phone number, too.
Techstars 312: If you're not on an SMS basis. I don't believe your deal is going to close, especially in b 2 b settings. Go ahead.
Techstars 312: I sometimes ask for it in the 1st meeting. It matters depends on my like confidence level in the meeting, but these are good. I'll just ask for it
Techstars 312: sometimes. It's already in the email signature and the meeting will wrap up, and I'll just text that number and be like, Hey, great meeting! Reach me here anytime. 9 out of 10 times we'll respond back.
Techstars 312: Then you can also have it. Find it somehow. That's weird. Right? If somebody just looks up my cell phone number and texts me out of bullet. I'm weird it out. I don't do it. I always ask. I think the software is kind of personal. You know. It's like, I mean, like I believe in this thing. You should be friendly with your buyers, but not friends. I would do that with my friends if I lost Neil's number, and I've been with friends for like 20 years now. It wouldn't be weird for me to text his new number.
Techstars 312: Well, like
Techstars 312: sometimes I met someone in a business setting, and I follow their like, Snapchat. It's a little weird like I do that with my friends. I like being friendly with my buyers. I'm not as friends. So ultimately I'm there to do a job like sometimes people will get into this like, oh, we went to a trade show, and we got hammered with this company. We all got drunk. I don't know about you guys I don't want to buy from a company that gets drunk with me. I want to do that with my friends on the weekends. I want to have a professional relationship with the people that buy services from, and I want you to be on your game. I want you to be sober. I want you to be obsessed.
Techstars 312: that's all I care about. I don't. I don't need to be socially like friendly with you.
Techstars 312: and certainly I don't think you develop trust by being friends with your buyers. You should be friendly and like sort of like, easy to talk to, but not unprofessional. That's my personal opinion.
Techstars 312: Use your customers existing legal agreements. Okay.
Techstars 312: if you are selling to a business, ask if they have an existing business agreement in place, that they already work with vendors, that their legal team is already renewed, unless there's some crazy term in there that says, by the way, by signing this agreement, you turn over your soul to us. And, by the way, years of servitude, like just insane terms in there. Just agree to it
Techstars 312: like, don't red line, don't change it. Don't get your lawyer to sit, use to review these agreements, sign it as is as much as possible what matters is the spirit of the agreement? It should be written in a plain English document. Hey? This is what we set out to do this is when we're going to go live by. This is the technology we're going to use. This is the IP ownership. It's an appendix to the existing agreement.
Techstars 312: Don't let legal reviews be a blocker for you to get the damn sale. Nobody cares like this is a thing that slows down process incredibly. This can add months to your sales process. Fuck it, just use their agreement for these early customers. It doesn't matter. Ultimately, you're going to get so much more in terms of progress. So what if you, if you give up some terms along the way, go ahead.
Techstars 312: customers asking us not to work with their competition or
Techstars 312: and kind of having a very extensive view of the
Techstars 312: as we try to negotiate that. Okay.
Techstars 312: is that, how do you think about it depends, I mean, how much of the market is limiting you. It's a very case by case basis, I mean, if there's only like Department of Defense, and it's asking me, don't work with the Chinese army. I might be okay with that, like, if it's like one tiny ass accounting company. And there's 50,000 accounting companies that I can work with. I'm not okay with that. So it's all a matter of like the trade-offs, right? Like, what am I going to be able to do with this logo.
Techstars 312: The point is here is, make it easy to do business with you. That's what I'm trying to tell you guys here like it's easy to buy from you. You're going to get more contracts signed. That means you need to have clear pricing clear terms and clear outcomes make that shit plain English. It doesn't have to be done with a business lawyer, or whatever it is. Just make it easy, just like, Hey, pay me X, and I do y for you
Techstars 312: the second greatest joy in sales. Why do we do all this shit? I really believe in this, the second greatest joy in sales
Techstars 312: fucking docusign. It's the inbox or Pandadoc, or whatever signature that thing that you're using.
Techstars 312: But like when that fucking thing like I'm telling you guys right now, like, I'm like, I'm a sales rep just as much as the next person like when that shit hits the inbox
Techstars 312: euphoria like I can sum up my like entrepreneurial journey of 20 years of building companies, probably to chase the high that I get. After the 5 min of a contract being signed. I literally, like Kendrick. Lamar has a song about this called maximum freestyle, just like, listen to that song about insane joy. Someone can feel in a euphoric moment.
Techstars 312: That's that like, it's incredible to get the damn thing through like it's such a joy. And by the way, you should build a sales culture that seeks this out like, I want to work with people who are addicted to this feeling. They have a near gambling like addiction. So like, do you know, people with slot machines because they want fucking dots. Whatever
Techstars 312: I want this like, I'm hyper about this. I will caffeinate myself until I get the next signature, and I'm depressed when I don't have it. I need this. This is my, this is my drug, like, I need a regular injection of this
Techstars 312: like. Imagine everybody in the team chases that high.
Techstars 312: Now we'll talk.
Techstars 312: Get this like, imagine the internal motivation that is driven like. I don't believe in yelling at people to drive a certain outcome, they should be chasing this. That's what matters.
Techstars 312: Okay, here's the greatest joy. That was the second greatest joy.
Techstars 312: Here is a joy that's 10 times bigger
Techstars 312: a genuine thank you from a customer, hey?
Techstars 312: We bought that thing from you 3 months ago. It's working awesome. Thank you.
Techstars 312: Our lives. I can't go back. I can't imagine how my life was before before we started working with you.
Techstars 312: and that right there, my friends, is the crack cocaine of the Star sport. That is the greatest joy. If you haven't experienced this. By the way, I'm so envious of, you know. People say like, oh, you don't have kids. I can't wait. When you hold that baby in your arm. Life is going to be the same. I don't have kids. I have I got this? Thank you.
Techstars 312: The genuine gratitude from a customer is the greatest feeling in the world of Startup.
Techstars 312: This is why I do what I do so, I can get a customer to say from the bottom. By the way, you can't fake this, you can fake growth. You can run fucking ads all day long. Get shit on prospects. You can get sales. It doesn't work doesn't matter. We're doing it. There's plenty of examples of companies that are faking sales, you can fake progress. You can hire engineers. Look at all these features that we deliver. Startup world is riddled with people who are faking shit all the time you fake stuff to your message you fake it to your profile, to everybody. You know what you can't fake this.
Techstars 312: A customer will not say genuine. Thank you to you, unless they absolutely love what you're doing. And that's what we're after.
Techstars 312: Now, there's a very selfish reason. This feels like a selfless thing to want. There's a very selfish reason to want this.
Techstars 312: A happy customer is your greatest sales tool.
Techstars 312: because the second you have this deliriously happy customer. You know what we're gonna do the next demo I have. All I'm gonna say is this, hey? See that company over there? This is the result that they got you want it. Yeah, okay, great. Here's the price. You don't want it. All right. I'll see you moving on.
Techstars 312: That's it. There's nothing better to sell a product by just showing this is the outcome I delivered for customer a, your customer. B. You guys seem to be similar. Do you want what customer a has
Techstars 312: doesn't matter if the bridge is made out of wood. Steel ropes doesn't matter. They saw the waterfall. I want to show you the waterfall, too.
Techstars 312: And yes, it's too good to be true. It's true they got it
Techstars 312: then. Can we talk to them? No, you can't talk to them. This is the result. They're busy. If you buy it, I will introduce you guys that's more specially reserved for our customers.
Techstars 312: That's it. That is, that is ultimately the best demo they got it. Do you want it?
Techstars 312: It's your job as a seller to schedule this outcome review when the contract is signed.
Techstars 312: So if you set up to say, like, Hey, this thing X is, gonna do XY, and Z. In the next 9 days. Okay, great. Let's put it on the calendar.
Techstars 312: We'll go live in June first.st Okay? Great. We should expect results by August. First, st let's put it on the calendar today. I am going to be here until that shit is done. And, by the way, I'm going to try my damn hardest to get it done earlier to get it done by July first, st because I'm seeking out that genuine. Thank you. I need it. I want that real outcome delivery for you as a business.
Techstars 312: You should do this. It's really easy to fuck off after you've done the sale, and just go to the next customer. No, it's you don't absolve yourself from this. Ultimately you're the owner of this business like you're not there just to sell. You're there to sell to a customer that gets results from you.
Techstars 312: A world-class product pays for itself in 90 days or less amusing. The world pays for itself as a replacement for the waterfall here, like you should do the thing that you set out to do ideally. It's making more money for your customer. So it's like really obvious. But whatever you said you're going to do, you should do it in the immediately in the immediate 90 days. But you should have that magic moment. Good is 6 months
Techstars 312: great. It's 3 months out of control is one month, if you can do like. Hey? You got the outcome in one month of working with us. You should aim to do that in the 1st 30 days, if you can. And, by the way, it's a great sort of product roadmap exercise like, can we make this happen faster and faster for our customers? What needs to be true about our product. So we deliver results faster, for our customer
Techstars 312: fixing an unhappy customer is going to be your easy sale if you get the privilege to have customers, and they're not happy with your product. Stop!
Techstars 312: Don't need to start with a new customer. Just fix that. Just say like, Hey, customer, it's not going well with you. Let's make it right for you. But that should be your greater priority. We're going to talk about that in the later workshop. You know how you order things in your startup, but treat that as an existing new prospect. It's an unhappy customer. It's great. They've already bought it like great. We've gone through all the hurdles that we have to go through. We just have to make it right for them.
Techstars 312: The mindset I want you guys to be in here is that a sale is not done until the customer has received the outcome that they sign up to receive. That's actually part of the sales process like we have to treat it like. Oh, it's like Stage 4 hasn't been accomplished yet, like this person found out about us. We demo the shit out of them. We close the deal, and we fulfill the product like that is the final stage of the sales cycle in the sort of like life cycle of a deal.
Techstars 312: Okay. Having said all of this, you might be wondering, well, what about a sales team when we hire a sales team. How do we know when is the right time to have sales really quickly? Because we're already 5 min over?
Techstars 312: You're the Vp of sales. I have some news for you. You don't get ahead of sales. You don't get a sales rep. You don't get an Sdr. You don't get marketing. It's you
Techstars 312: you should be able to sell the product as you. And it's really important that one person on your team is accountable for their outreach goals, their revenue goals, whatever that is.
Techstars 312: Sometimes what happens in startups is the tragedy of the comments, as in like sales, becomes this mutual responsibility, like everybody, is selling. No, no! If everybody is selling, nobody's selling.
Techstars 312: one person has to say, my ass is all grass. If I don't deliver XY. And Z.
Techstars 312: And if I'm not delivering XY. And ZI better have some good explanations on. Why, it hasn't happened. Hey, team! We did this much in outreach. No one got back to us. I'm moving on. I'm gonna try this other thing like you either have results or you have lessons. But you have products
Techstars 312: like you have to be holding yourself accountable to make that happen. This is really hard to do. Typically the head of sales is the CEO also. The CEO is like ultimately the person who's holding everybody else accountable. How do we do this? You have to empower your co-founder, board member, advisor, whoever that person is to say like, Hey, I'm dad of sales. Treat me as the Vp. Of sales in this business.
Techstars 312: and if I'm not delivering results, someone else should be the Vp. Of sales like that. That to me is what an ultimately an accountable CEO would do.
Techstars 312: Do not hire a sales rep until you're absolutely drowning, like a good way. A good reason to hire a sales rep is, we have too many meetings on my calendar. I cannot literally have another meeting like I'm booked up. I don't have enough hours in the day. That's the moment
Techstars 312: that means that you've sold for outreach, and likely you also sold for how many meetings you have to have in order to get a yes, these are low of large numbers, like you only had 3 meetings. One of them turn into a customer. You got lucky. I'm talking about the volume volume leading to Demos, like in a predictable manner. You should be able to say, if I have 10 demos. One of those fuckers are gonna turn into a customer, I know.
Techstars 312: Go ahead. Demand outweighs, demand, outweighs supply like you should be hurting for time in order to add someone else to your team.
Techstars 312: and the 1st job of a seller is to pay for themselves like, here's a nice little fun math problem.
Techstars 312: The sales Rep costs as a base salary. Let's call it $100,000. Arbitrary number. Okay, how much in profit do I generate from one deal over the course of a year. Subscriptions. I take out all my costs, whatever it is. One deal. I make $10,000 over the course of a year. Okay.
Techstars 312: how long does it take for someone to close 10 deals?
Techstars 312: How long? 3 months, 4 months like you should have that math locked in. Because ultimately, if you say to a seller is like, Hey, seller, I'm hiring you today.
Techstars 312: Your job is to sell 10 deals over the course of the next 4 months. That is your salary.
Techstars 312: unless you're paying for yourself in the next 4 months, which is what I would do if I was doing was selling. I bet I could get that number in 2 to 4 months. I'm gonna give you the tail end of that 4 months unless you're able to deliver 10 sales for me in 4 months. You're out.
Techstars 312: Stop looking for a job on month 3 like we're not gonna have a discussion on this like you must be paying for yourself.
Techstars 312: and if you don't have that math figured out, don't hire sales. It's as simple as that. You should be able to say to a rep, pay for yourself and a rep who is not like? I'll get that done in a month. Don't hire them
Techstars 312: like their their head is not in the right place to work in a startup in an early stage environment.
Techstars 312: It's the easiest thing to pay for yourself like you should only be hiring people that pay for themselves ultimately. But a sales rep is like a direct result, like they. They're there
Chloe Lannert: Yes, you go to them and say, Hey, I'm Company A.
Chloe Lannert: I'm not hiring a sales rep yet, but I'm really hungry. Tomorrow.
Chloe Lannert: Can I have on a call with you to establish a connection, that when we are going to hire a sales, rep that we have on a call to explore some new opportunities in the process. I'd really like to learn from you.
Chloe Lannert: How do people buy in this industry? What do you do? How do you develop a pipeline. I'm not asking for you to give me the proprietary information about how the product works. I want to understand your system.
Chloe Lannert: Great sellers will take pride in their system. They will.
Chloe Lannert: let me tell you. I've been working on this shit for the past 8 years. It's ironclad. I do this, I do that, and I do this, and they always ask me this. I say this like they will have that shit locked down. Learn from it, implement it.
Chloe Lannert: say to the person, hey? I implemented the thing that you told me to. It was awesome. Can we spend more time together like that person ultimately will join your team. If they can have confidence in that, they can sell your products.
Chloe Lannert: They will do that if you show them results. If you show them that. Hey? This is sellable. And, by the way, the thing you told me it's working like a chart. I did this live with my 1st startup. We're going to get into the details like how that happened in the next conversation today. But this is a gold mine. This is how you not only outpace your learning, because these people have been in that role for a long time, and they have the receipts to show it.
Chloe Lannert: but they ultimately will be more likely to say yes to you, because, great like, what an awesome relationship like the CEO is learning from me already awesome. They're not going to be on my ass about stuff that they have no idea talking about. They're open to learning.
Chloe Lannert: Great sellers take pride in their numbers. I started this talk by punching a number as my 1st slide. This is what I delivered.
Chloe Lannert: Great sales reps will put on their linkedin year yearly performance 2024. This is what I had 2023. This is what I had. 2022. This is what I have. They'll take. They'll own that number. Nothing else matters for them. They're chasing that pie of like a genuine Thank you, and assigned.
Chloe Lannert: and the measure of progress for them is that number. People avoid talking about their their numbers like I've been President. If they avoid talking about it right away, they should be working for you. They should be ultimately high and high performance. High performance show their performance like these are my results.
Chloe Lannert: and especially when I went from people who say some stupid shit along the lines of like, well, my network is amazing about car dealership. I know a lot of car dealers, networks or not like, what are you gonna do like ultimately, when the people that, you know runs up. What are you gonna do? You're just gonna like, sit there. But knowing who you know is a great starting point. We should hire people who are scientists. I tried this. They didn't work out. I tried this. It didn't work out like these are ultimately problem solvers. And it should be finding those people can like approach these things and sort of like open ended engineering problems
Chloe Lannert: and ultimately start from training guys.
Chloe Lannert: But all of this happens
Chloe Lannert: in the full context of the knowledge that I know your shit sucks right now. Yes, the demo don't work. Yes, you don't have. You don't know where your buyers are. You go to trade shows whatever whatever it is.
Chloe Lannert: You don't have all the tools that you wish you could have great.
Chloe Lannert: So what you have.
Chloe Lannert: and greatest seller sells with a straw man, a pen and paper and a zoom. Call none of these things cost money, and, by the way, this is the right attitude to have in the sales. If it starts with you as exemplifiers of this right culture, you should
Chloe Lannert: be the standard that you hope to expect to see from other people. Do you really want to have a sales team where people are bitching about leads like this happens all the time? Oh, marketing isn't giving us good leads. People just complain. There's bitch. There's like, Oh, the product. The demo failed in the thing. Okay, but take a screenshot show up like
Chloe Lannert: you have to have this attitude of resourcefulness that I don't need anything from my team. I will move mountains with what I got, and I will make do with the resources that I have access to. That's got to be the attitude. No complaining. Sell with what you have. Sell the imperfect product. That's the right attitude to have as an early stage seller in this business. If you want to survive
Chloe Lannert: question that was asked of me, you've seen all of my text. Every single one you've seen over all these years last week was, what's a pattern of of success or failure with the company something along those lines. And my answer, I believe, was something along the lines of externalization.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So they always have some other reason why something doesn't work other than their own actions. It sounds like that's what you're speaking 1,000%. Look, it's it's really I'm saying this like, Look, I'm a founder, just like you. It's really easy, just not right.
Chloe Lannert: I'm sucks the demo fails like.
Chloe Lannert: But I tried to do the thing. It didn't work like. I asked for this thing from the customer. They didn't get back to me. What like your life is horrible. It's the movie is a horror movie. It's bad. Should happen all the time. Who cares?
Chloe Lannert: Who cares? Nobody cares
Chloe Lannert: like you have to make do with what we have, and have this attitude to the rest of the team like you're ultimately accountable as a head of sales. Hey? Engineering? I got it.
Chloe Lannert: Don't worry about it. I will make you with what we have. If that's your attitude towards the rest of the team, they'll be even more hungry to help you out and get things right for you. But if you're constantly complaining. It's your fault, whatever. That's not really a motivating person to work.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, we're 15 min over. I got a little too carried away.
Chloe Lannert: Let's take a 5 min break. We need to go to the restroom, get another diet coat, do what you gotta do, do it. We'll see you guys here at 3, 4, 20 shop
Chloe Lannert: cool. I see you guys, okay.
Chloe Lannert: people.
Chloe Lannert: fun ones, 2530.
Chloe Lannert: It's funny, good
Chloe Lannert: sales. That's right.
Chloe Lannert: You're welcome.
Chloe Lannert: So it's
Chloe Lannert: curious. If there's particular experiences, stealth.
Chloe Lannert: We're going to talk about them tomorrow in the founder story. My huge share of failures. I hate failure. Don't get me wrong. I like to win. I'm a winner.
Chloe Lannert: but
Chloe Lannert: unless you're failing along the way, you're just not being ambitious enough like being ambitious by definition means that you're going for shit that you have a good chance of failing at. That's the size of ambition, and in the character stat sheet, I believe in maxing out the ambition like yes, failing sucks, but not failing because you're not being ambitious enough, sucks more so. Max, out the ambition on the stat sheet, and then inevitable byproduct of that is failures
Chloe Lannert: that feels like yours mindset comes from.
Chloe Lannert: I know it works because it's paying
Chloe Lannert: sales process like, is it yesterday?
Chloe Lannert: And so what like, how do you navigate around? How can you build product without a customer? This is my fundamental problem. Like the product should not exist in your brain. The product should be informed by what the customer is telling you to do, and by definition, that means I need to have a customer who bought some alcohol for me.
Chloe Lannert: like there's the product will never mature. If you're sort of like cooking it up in like a laptop somewhere like a customer has to say that sucks that's awesome like it cannot be your opinion. That's why I mean, if you if you could be your 1st customer, that's obviously awesome. But it's real right, like you don't run a law firm. So like you have to find law firm to tell you like, Hey, you're my 1st customer. That means you have to have a say that's a privilege like. And again, law firms is this sort of abstract concept.
Chloe Lannert: There are people who work in this place like right? So
Chloe Lannert: ask them to pay for the custom stuff if they are willing to pay you enough. Maybe that's what your product should do.
Chloe Lannert: Bye. Now.
Chloe Lannert: like a customer, is willing to put their money where their mouth is. I want the custom solution. Maybe there's a need in your market to have custom shit like maybe a business should fill that role like. And, by the way, it's 10 times more expensive, willing to pay that I don't know. Maybe that's better business, right? Like
Chloe Lannert: I ultimately make those kind of composition just based by putting a price like, Oh, hey, let's find our roadmap. I can add it to. I can add a 2 up there, but it's gonna cost you 10 times more. You wanna they will tell you. Not really right. We avoided a costly detour that says.
Chloe Lannert: Alright, we're gonna get started alright.
Chloe Lannert: So the 1st topic we talked about is to how to find these early stage customers, when, knowing that all the odds are against you. Okay, awesome.
Chloe Lannert: I acknowledge that because you guys are selling to businesses, it's gonna take time.
Chloe Lannert: The goal of the second part is how you earn that time. I have a simple belief when it comes to startup finance.
Chloe Lannert: although this is about, you know how to spend money. But we're mostly gonna talk about how you should not spend money.
Chloe Lannert: This is gonna sound counterintuitive, like, you guys have raised money. You guys have money. You have budgets.
Chloe Lannert: I'm telling you right now.
Chloe Lannert: You should not be spending money
Chloe Lannert: on basically anything in your startup
Chloe Lannert: like this is my basic belief other than paying yourself, you should pay yourself. That's okay. Other than paying yourself.
Chloe Lannert: You should not be spending money on absolutely shit when it comes to your startup. I've seen this movie just too many times, like, here's what happens.
Chloe Lannert: One is my.
Chloe Lannert: they got money for the 1st time. They heard from some startup block somewhere where you got to spend money to make money, you know. You gotta go to a trade show. You gotta do that, you know. Like that, you know. Make these connections.
Chloe Lannert: It's so easy to spend money. My God, this is like you've never had resources before. Now you have it for the 1st time. Great! We're like, let's let's splurge a little bit. Let's buy the coffee machine. Let's buy a new laptop. You got resources.
Chloe Lannert: It runs out so fast. So I'm gonna start with an exercise with you guys.
Chloe Lannert: Let's do this for the people in the room for people who are dialing in. Try to couple run along as well. But it's gonna be a little interactive.
Chloe Lannert: I want you guys to go ahead. You guys use Mercury Silicon Valley Bank. What do you guys use for your like banking solutions. What do you use? By the way.
Chloe Lannert: what do you use?
Chloe Lannert: Pull up your bank accounts. Let's go to Scrooge me. Character. The the guy with the money bolt. Who's got all the money? He's hoarding it. I do this religiously with my team. The Scrooge make duck review every month it happens.
Chloe Lannert: Pull up your company bank accounts and look at the do this right now, if you guys have like, pull up your bank accounts right now for your startup login.
Chloe Lannert: I want you to grade your last 10 expenses, one through 5,
Chloe Lannert: like you see, line by line, like money. Leaving your accounts. Those are expenses like a negative values.
Chloe Lannert: Here's the rubric and number 5. Is this spent?
Chloe Lannert: It could be gmail inbox. It could be your last uber eats order it could be. Whatever like
Chloe Lannert: this spend will make me more than a hundred $1,000 in the next 12 months.
Chloe Lannert: Number 4 is this will make me $10,000 in the next 12 months. Number 3 is, it's will pay for itself in the next 12 months.
Chloe Lannert: Number 2 is this will make me some money, but likely less than what I'm spending on it right now, and Number 5 is unknown, like likely 0 in the next 12 months. I don't really know. There's really no way for this to to make me money.
Chloe Lannert: Does everybody understand this like literally pull up sheets on you new spreadsheet book and paste your last expenses. I want to see one number next to each expense. You have 3 min. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: photo.
Chloe Lannert: There's no hiding here, do it.
Chloe Lannert: We'll be less than expensive. It's the last 10 there's no like. Oh, that was one time, because we went to a trade show. No, like every live last 10. Whatever is the last 10?
Chloe Lannert: Go ahead. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: Okay. Well, how much money is that gonna make you less than 0?
Chloe Lannert: Well, if you don't pay for your franchise that you're also not gonna be in business, right? Right?
Chloe Lannert: How much money are you planning on making for the next?
Chloe Lannert: A license? Okay, that's a requirement for you to make that money. That sounds relevant sounds relevant like that. That's the spend. You should probably make
Chloe Lannert: whatever you believe, whatever you believe there's no right or wrong answer. You have 2 min left. Let's go to square 5, 4, 3, 4, 1.
Chloe Lannert: Got your bank account touched.
Chloe Lannert: You got you got? You got 10 expresses.
Chloe Lannert: What's the spreadsheet?
Chloe Lannert: You got it, buck guys, I'm not fucking around here like we're gonna stay here until we do this
Chloe Lannert: last 10 expenses. I need a number next to every single line. Item.
Chloe Lannert: the thing is, I just have a question around, like collectively.
Chloe Lannert: they will make X amount of money.
Chloe Lannert: Thanks. One of the 10 expenses is our our registration, the monthly fee for the registration of our site
Chloe Lannert: about the bank. Okay, so this feedback
Chloe Lannert: if we participate to the 100 K.
Chloe Lannert: But if you didn't have it, would you not be able to make that work?
Chloe Lannert: I think if we didn't have. We didn't have a kind of a
Chloe Lannert: a website with the expectation it was going to make you some money.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, how much money are you gonna make with accounting.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, that's like it's not going to be well with good accounting. For example, you might have some expenses that you should be making. Okay, how much are they?
Chloe Lannert: You have a hundred $1,000 in expenses. How much money we can make from good accounting, because the company that we do
Chloe Lannert: do you have like this is a big number. So you're gonna make a hundred $1,000 in the next 12 months because you have good accounting. How does that help you make getting more leads.
Chloe Lannert: because good accounting will help us with better structuring, better goals, like financial goals. Okay? But could you do it by yourself
Chloe Lannert: because they need to do the filing.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, okay, I am.
Chloe Lannert: I would say. That will likely be a 3. I I doubt that that's a revenue generating item for you say that. Okay, it's gonna be a wash because we we're gonna save somebody. As a result of this, I accounting isn't necessarily like a sales or marketing department. It's not gonna get you more customers.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, everybody got everybody got their last 10 expenses down. Who's not ready to raise your hand.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, we. We have 2 more laggers. Everybody's waiting for. You guys. Wrap up, wrap up, just put a threes for the rest of your expenses.
Chloe Lannert: Did you find yourself skipping some?
Chloe Lannert: They wanted to cool. We'll just skip, go ahead recording transaction through online portal one transaction before another purchase.
Chloe Lannert: But it was like one thing, right?
Chloe Lannert: Software whose salaries like to handle size to to run payroll. Okay, cool. How much money?
Chloe Lannert: How much is that person gonna make you? That's an expense they're incurring to pay for someone's salary. How much is going to make it?
Chloe Lannert: Oh, I'm not okay, everybody know.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, now, I want you guys. To sum up those last 10 numbers and divide by 10.
Chloe Lannert: What's the average number?
Chloe Lannert: If you had done in a spreadsheet, this would have been easier. But just add it up and divide by time. That also works.
Chloe Lannert: You guys can do math. You're tech founders.
Chloe Lannert: Add up those 10 numbers.
Chloe Lannert: Anybody got a number 1, 6, 2.6. Okay, great. Thank you for being honest. 3.4.
Chloe Lannert: What else? 4.5. Let's hear your expenses. What do you got. It sounds phenomenal. You got fives and fours in there.
Chloe Lannert: But, boys, okay, are they both fives?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, what? How do you know?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, you have 100,000 contracts. And without her you would be able to Google those contracts. I give that a 5.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, more Ubers more Ubers.
Chloe Lannert: So those Ubers are 4 or 5. Okay.
Chloe Lannert: hopefully, from this program to make.
Chloe Lannert: So I love it with it.
Chloe Lannert: Whomever password manager how to use it.
Chloe Lannert: What's the current outbound volume? You're you guys have a sales tech company? Right?
Chloe Lannert: So what's the current conversion rates? What's going on?
Chloe Lannert: What is the way of it? How many hours do you do for a month.
Chloe Lannert: because we get like 4 to 6, like inbound referrals.
Chloe Lannert: Why did you pause it for those 3 months?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, next person. His point is. Well, so the I think that the idea is that you want to welcome question, even if it's valid right? It's helpful to get that kind of pushback, because you'll get in front of people, too.
Chloe Lannert: I'm asking you guys to do this for yourselves.
Chloe Lannert: I I don't take any pleasure in prep by asking guys questions like this.
Chloe Lannert: shouldn't you wanna do it to yourself?
Chloe Lannert: Here's a real- real case that that I would personally be struggling with.
Chloe Lannert: So, for example, we're using a designer for website, and we can do the design ourselves. And it's just not. And we are. We've decided to spend money on design because we thought at the end of the day. Yes, we're going to be spending money
Chloe Lannert: but one. It's going to save us time that we're going to be able to invest in the business and do better off. And 2, it's kind of the yeah. The result is going to be better.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: how much better is it going to be how much we care about the quality of our website, and how, you see we are going with that. It's kind of unclear that it works wide
Chloe Lannert: return on investment.
Chloe Lannert: But we're kind of making that
Chloe Lannert: see us from doing something that we are not that great at.
Chloe Lannert: I think a large company can spend $50,000 on redesign their website. It wouldn't be a drop in the bucket. It will likely cost more.
Chloe Lannert: What I'm telling you guys, is that you most likely do not need a $50,000 website. You probably need a 9 99 per month.
Chloe Lannert: Wireframe based
Chloe Lannert: web flow based squarespace based solution. That's templatized. So you guys ship in an hour and move the fuck on with your lives.
Chloe Lannert: Of course you can spend money on design. Of of course, of course, things can be better. Do you really need it?
Chloe Lannert: Ask yourself, in your heart
Chloe Lannert: is me making a hundred grand in the next 12 months. Really bottlenecked by my website, looking professional, is it? Really?
Chloe Lannert: I can't make that judgment for you. It's your job to make that judgment. But it's very tempting to not even ask the question.
Chloe Lannert: Go ahead, and and just on- on that, just to make it real real is
Chloe Lannert: exactly. That's exactly the question I asked myself. Last year
Chloe Lannert: we decided to go for a designer, although I wasn't. Personally, I wasn't sure that it was worth it.
Chloe Lannert: and as we got some good, some customers they actually, I mean, all of them
Chloe Lannert: were kind of. One of the key thing that they loved was how simple it looked, how efficient it was, etc. So my point here is.
Chloe Lannert: if you if you had asked me that question like a year ago and you had told me like, Hey.
Chloe Lannert: are you sure you can? It's going to help, or how- how, I don't know.
Chloe Lannert: I'm not 100% sure. And I do. It's it was my money that I was spending, so I was very, very. It was not a matter of kind of oh, I have all that.
Chloe Lannert: I went against my preconceptions that is not to spend it. I don't want to spend it.
Chloe Lannert: I torture myself into spending it, although I wasn't sure that it was going to work, and and in the end it made sample of what it's. It looked like it was the right call, and if I had to do it again, I would do it again. So how do you reconcile that which is fundamentally? Am I sure? No, I'm not sure. What I'm saying is that it should only make sense where you're sure of.
Chloe Lannert: There's infinite things like that. There's we're gonna get specifics of what those things are. And one of this is this exact thing website can look better. There's so many tempting things to spend money on that's not moving needle. So the basic principle that we're operating here under is a theory of constraints
Chloe Lannert: in a sufficiently complex system. There's going to be a lot of inefficiencies right? There's going to be things like this isn't working right? Our website isn't right. We don't have sales reps. We're not spending enough money on Instagram ads. Whatever whatever whatever. There's a lot of broken things in your startup.
Chloe Lannert: There's only one bottleneck
Chloe Lannert: as I'm like, there's only one area. That is the problem. Like, we're gonna have 20 problems. One of them is the 1st problem you should fix. Maybe we should be spending money on instead is improving the product. So it's more accurate. I don't know what that is for you guys I'm just using as a placeholder. Or maybe it is indeed redesigning the website. Maybe it is getting more people to do cold calls like, there's 1 thing that matters more than others.
Chloe Lannert: Every other improvement you make in the business is invisible until that problem is resolved.
Chloe Lannert: If you don't move the bottleneck progress is invisible.
Chloe Lannert: and there's a lot of spend in all of your accounts that is not moving towards the bottleneck. That is not an absolute number 5.
Chloe Lannert: If it's not an ironclad. Well, obviously, it's a number 5. We have signed contracts. This person is due to fulfill them. Without them we can't fulfill obvious.
Chloe Lannert: Everything should be obvious like that.
Chloe Lannert: We're taking an Uber to here. I don't know what it's gonna make like. Dude don't like that should be something I am glad about go ahead, so I don't know if you know this. But for a while I thought this was more like a thought exercise. Right. This is helpful, because obviously you can scrutinize every expenses, the way of thinking about it right and kind of jar you. And then thinking about it. However.
Chloe Lannert: you all remember Jake? Right? So, Jake, you all know who Jason Valley Angel Guy. He's on Jake's cap table twice. So Jake went through the launch accelerator, and then he doubled down and reinvested, I think, as an angel as well.
Chloe Lannert: I remember when he was applying to launch accelerator one of the things that he had to do was send the past 3 months of his company bank account statement.
Chloe Lannert: So he literally had to send the transaction from his business to get into the accelerator and be ready to justify. So this happened, in fact, recently
Chloe Lannert: that I saw so I hadn't seen that before. I didn't even know, because I don't ask you guys for that. But just know, like, this, exercise isn't just a game. This could literally be you in a position where you have to communicate to an investor. Right? So I think it's a really important, healthy thing to do, even if you see it slightly differently than how the marriage is explaining his thought process. Just be ready to back up. However, you think about how you spend it.
Chloe Lannert: Go ahead
Chloe Lannert: so I can create the score. It's 3.2 right could have improved the score. But the the- the question is, while
Chloe Lannert: optimizing this score, there's also an opportunity cost and cognitive load. So like, for example, I've been hunting for a house for the last one week
Chloe Lannert: and trying to optimize the cost on that. I saved 1,000 bucks because I found a cheaper house
Chloe Lannert: further away, but because I spent one week to stay to save on that $1,000.
Chloe Lannert: I gotta spend that time reaching out to customers and spending, my, you know, energy on more productive things, so that balance so has to be there like optimizing. This number is in the
Chloe Lannert: only thing there's a cognitive load that we have to.
Chloe Lannert: you know. Also employ when doing these things and my time is more valuable than I don't know a few $1,000 as a CEO. So what's your opinion of that? What I'm saying is that you have limited resources, and if that's your real quick.
Chloe Lannert: because the rest of the team is gonna start thinking like that as well.
Chloe Lannert: I believe you should be scrappy. And yeah, you should chase after that one week you should chase after that 1,000 look. If it's a $10, don't do it. I can't make that call for you.
Chloe Lannert: but it should be almost in your ethos to do a dollar's worth of work with 10 cents like that's gotta be our starting point. If there's a cheaper, free option for us to do it, and it slightly requires more effort. Yes, we do it that way.
Chloe Lannert: Bias on the side of saving like that has to be our starting point. Go ahead. There's a quote from an investor that I met invest in people who felt good.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, that's a great way to put it, did you hear what you said? Invested people by coach, which is in a different way? Pattern recognition on the investor side are people who have patterns of frugality.
Chloe Lannert: So you are frugal. You're able to demonstrate that you're very focused on optimizing your business expenses, costs and resources early on it's a pattern of that over time. As you grow as well.
Chloe Lannert: we do look for people who demonstrate that pattern absolutely.
Chloe Lannert: So I want to show you guys something.
Chloe Lannert: Our score is 4.5. By the way, I just want to put that out there, and that's a real 4.5. Like, if you think I'm being a dick to you guys right now, I'm addicted to team all the fucking time. This money is our money. It's really important. Every dollar that we spend needs to be earning us more money.
Chloe Lannert: Here's what our analysis looks like.
Chloe Lannert: It's this one.
Chloe Lannert: So you guys all have financial models. Right?
Chloe Lannert: Why is this not clicking almost. I don't even say they all have any.
Chloe Lannert: What are your financial models?
Chloe Lannert: Why don't you guys have financial models? What's going on with that. Who's who doesn't have a financial model yet?
Chloe Lannert: You guys don't have it yet. Why not?
Chloe Lannert: We thought too early to put sensible numbers up.
Chloe Lannert: Your forecast is nonsensible. I don't care about that. Your line items should be ironclad. You should know how much money you're going to spend over the course of the next 9 days, 108 days. That's the starting point of your financial model.
Chloe Lannert: Every month we look at. How much time did we actually spend? How much did we forecast?
Chloe Lannert: What was the actual spend on this thing?
Chloe Lannert: Why did we spend more than we spend it?
Chloe Lannert: What the fuck we spent this in this. What is this? What's going on here? What are these miscellaneous spends? Line by line, every single person on my team. We're a fairly mature business. We're over a million dollars in sales. We have a ton of expenses. I still demand this shit.
Chloe Lannert: Everybody who's spending money in my company needs to show. This is why I'm spending this money. This is why it's above projections. This is why it's below projections. Every dollar matters.
Chloe Lannert: This has to be a religious exercise in your organization.
Chloe Lannert: Amazon is one of the most valuable companies in the world.
Chloe Lannert: People are still talking about the early days where Jeff Bezos had to put up a table that they bought from Home depot as desks, because that was a slightly cheaper thing to do. It's in the ethos. It's in the DNA of the company has to be in yours.
Chloe Lannert: You have to be resourceful. You don't have a choice.
Chloe Lannert: Select show. Again.
Chloe Lannert: The reality is.
Chloe Lannert: this story repeats itself too many times. You have resources. You're tempted to spend. It feels like other people's money. It's money here. It's your money. You have to have this understanding. You have resources in the bank start wasting money. Because, oh, yeah, we haven't got around to doing this again. We have resources. Now let's do it when it runs out like we. I love to say now that we're funded, we can start investing. Let's start wasting money like nobody's business.
Chloe Lannert: You run out of money like, oh, you have to make money to spend money. I've heard this, too. This is a great you have to. You have to make money to spend money. That's how you do it. Youtube shorts on sales, advice.
Chloe Lannert: You have to spend money to make money, money drives other.
Chloe Lannert: You have to go back, raise more money, do the same shit again. 9 messages will give you a little bit of less. You now have less optionality. You're a little bit more tighter on your tap table. Your evaluation sucks people asking, Why don't you do a bridge on another bridge on another bridge? You have to answer these questions like a fucking idiot.
Chloe Lannert: And suddenly you find yourself where the money gun dries out, and you ask yourself what went wrong. But what the fuck went wrong is, you spent too much money. You made bad decisions on that 5 through one, and you spent closer to the one and not to the 5.
Chloe Lannert: You didn't have this discipline in place.
Chloe Lannert: The habits you need are the same in day. One versus a hundred versus a thousand.
Chloe Lannert: Resourcefulness is the goal, not resources, and I would mention what to argue. I I stand by this point.
Chloe Lannert: Too many resources for a startup is a bad thing.
Chloe Lannert: If you have too many resources.
Chloe Lannert: You will do too many things.
Chloe Lannert: and if you do too many things you will suck at all of them.
Chloe Lannert: I'd rather have you do 3 things, but do them at a world class level
Chloe Lannert: be the best in the world to do that. Let's just do an experiment. You have 2 identical products. They both improve in a delivery. One of them got a ton of resources so that company patches their deliver solution by chatting together a bunch of their solutions like that product isn't 1 that's chat gpt, so that's a billion dollars a month.
Chloe Lannert: You gotta seek. You're gonna be the team that says, Hey, I only have so much money. I don't have resources, therefore I will be more clever about what I built. The product is better, with less resources. You have to be in this mindset. You have to have the team to say like, Hey, we have too many fucking resources. You get less now
Chloe Lannert: do more with less that's got to be everybody's attitude. That's always going to be your truth. And if you believe in this, a couple of things are going to happen. One. People are going to be more disciplined. They're not going to come knocking your door and ask you for money for some dumb shit, because you'll be asking them, how much money is that going to make us? Why are you doing this? What customer has demanded this?
Chloe Lannert: And 2? You've got a higher valuation
Chloe Lannert: because you have made the money you have last longer. You're going to get money at better terms always, always, always, always. People who are missing. You will feel better about that capital that they're entrusting you. And, more importantly, it will just last longer, like, literally, it's a slice of dice. The amount of money you have with the money you spend every month. That's how much time you have in this world to exist. You will just have more of it.
Chloe Lannert: and you have to understand this fundamental truth. Not every dollar in your bank account is created equal. It's funny, right? Like money is money. You have a bank account. There's a number in that bank account, $19,751, $85,000, or $432. Whatever number of money you have in your bank account. It's actually deceiving. It's not the same.
Chloe Lannert: If you earn that dollar I would argue that it's worth more than somebody who invested a dollar like when you invested in this. What was it really done? You convinced some asshole who got money to give you money? Exactly.
Chloe Lannert: He's my best friend, so I can see that. But like.
Chloe Lannert: do you care about a dollar you get from Neil, which is pretty good. But what about your ideal customer giving you a dollar that's worth more. That's going to lead you to a successful case study. That's gonna get that a positive referral from that customer. There's your current value of that revenue. That person's gonna keep paying you because they're going to keep up like that. Money is giving you. Once
Chloe Lannert: that money comes back to us.
Chloe Lannert: It's not the same.
Chloe Lannert: And I want you guys sort of start thinking in this way, these dollars aren't created equal in your bank account
Chloe Lannert: a dollar and effective marketing. Let's say you have figured out how to run really good ads. You run a dollar in Facebook ads and generates $10 in sales for you.
Chloe Lannert: That's that's a lot that's that's goal. That's something you figured out for your business. That's really really valuable.
Chloe Lannert: Or if you imagine a dollar you're spending in a bad hire salary that's worth way more than a dollar a bad hire? We're going to fire. That asshole is going to sue us. Maybe, man, that we're going to find a replacement. We're going to train that replacement. It's going to cost us money to find them like the actual interview process. That negative dollar is worth more than negative dollar. That person should be fired immediately.
Chloe Lannert: like, I want you guys to be in this sort of like mindset of grading your expenses as investments. How good was this investment? But also grading your income like we got this money from an investor. I shouldn't be happy about this. We got this money from a customer that's amazing like that's got to be our mindset and sort of like how we go through this.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: I just want to share with you guys. This is what I'm about to share now is a summary of my past 10 years as an operator investor. I've seen literally hundreds, probably over a thousand companies that either went through techstars or went through my desk as an investor like
Chloe Lannert: I'm friends with founders like, I'm surrounded by a lot of entrepreneurial activity.
Chloe Lannert: I have seen that people who believe in this mantra win.
Chloe Lannert: You are the investor
Chloe Lannert: like you decide. An investor giving you money is simply a rounding error like you decide where money gets invested
Chloe Lannert: and no results. Okay, no budget
Chloe Lannert: like, if you're not going to drive an outcome for me. I'm not making this investment like an investor, is ultimately entrusting you with money for you to continue investing for the rest of the business, like you're an investor in your departments like, Hey, I'm investing X in accounting
Chloe Lannert: because I want to drive this outcome from accounting, not because it's default, like a lot of companies have accounting companies, have payroll or whatever it is like. Have that mindset like, are we really gonna invest is where we're gonna get in return.
Chloe Lannert: Here are 6 ways that I've seen over the years that companies waste money. It's too common.
Chloe Lannert: And I'd like you guys, if you guys see yourself in these examples, I'd like you guys to acknowledge it. But more importantly, I'd like you guys to stop doing that shit. That's the ultimate takeaway for me, like what makes me happy is for yourself, like, maybe we should stop. Okay, let's start
Chloe Lannert: free planets like, if I could roundhouse kick a concept in startups.
Chloe Lannert: We're gonna get to see we're scheduled a free pilot. There you go.
Chloe Lannert: How do you know there's no such thing as a free pilot customer might request it.
Chloe Lannert: you might say, Hey, I see where you're coming from.
Chloe Lannert: A pilot's there for us to validate some ultimate unknown. Right. Now you try to de-risk this thing. What is that risk? Are you worried about technology? Are you worried about our timeliness? Are you worried about our accuracy. Are you worried about our XY and Z. Are you worried about the color of my underpants? Whatever it is.
Chloe Lannert: there's something you're worried about, something, some unknown.
Chloe Lannert: A free pilot is gonna make that known. I got it awesome.
Chloe Lannert: It's gonna cost us time and resources to make sure that you have a phenomenal free pilot, and I'm only willing to do that for people who are serious about buying from me.
Chloe Lannert: Let's sign the agreement. I will not send you an invoice until you get what you need.
Chloe Lannert: but unless you will sign the the agreement, sorry I'm not doing it.
Chloe Lannert: A pilot should be on the milestone in the context of a signed agreement as in like, this, agreement is activated.
Chloe Lannert: If you see XY and Z in results, I'm okay. I actually like that I want to deliver those outcomes faster for you. How long do you need to lead the pilot 3 months? Why not come? You want to drive in 3 months. I want to see an accuracy of 98% great. I'm going to make that shit happen in 2 weeks. Believe me, I want the contract faster. I'm incentivized to get you the results faster.
Chloe Lannert: But I'm only gonna do it. If you're willing to give me X when that contract is done.
Chloe Lannert: There's so many times. Of course the customer will ask you for a free pilot. Just say no.
Chloe Lannert: they're wasting your time.
Chloe Lannert: and this is a phenomenal way to waste money because you get sort of in the maybe a free pile is a maybe. But we said earlier in the sales team.
Chloe Lannert: maybe is the worst answer.
Chloe Lannert: We want the yes, we want the No. And buyers.
Chloe Lannert: They also don't want to waste their time with a free pilot like a real buyer would be like. Give me the outcome. Pilot ain't giving me the outcome. I want the outcome. Give me the goal. What's the goal?
Chloe Lannert: 3 powder is on the gold.
Chloe Lannert: Your revenue is the greatest like product manager. I want you guys to think about this. People are asking for custom shit. What if they ask for custom stuff that is not really on our roadmap. What do you charge for it?
Chloe Lannert: You're asked for a custom thing great.
Chloe Lannert: Our product is 10. That's a hundred.
Chloe Lannert: How about you want it?
Chloe Lannert: We really want it. We'll pay the 100. Okay. Well, maybe your product should do that like if you're getting that kind of signal from your customer where, like holy shit, they're paying this 10 times to do that. Okay, well, I guess there's an offering. Now you realize you are the product manager. You can make these decisions, but it should only make those decisions for people who are voting with their dollars
Chloe Lannert: like, if they say I will pay for that thing. That's a pretty good signal that the next person might ask that as well.
Chloe Lannert: And you want you should always say like, Hey, that's a lot of money. Why do you want to do that? They will tell you because of that custom thing. We're going to drive this other outcome, like people aren't doing this out of charity. They're doing it because they have a math in their head like, I want to drive value in this kind of manner. It's golden information for you to get that from the customer, and a free pilot doesn't get you that at all. If anything, it hides the bad buyers.
Chloe Lannert: A bad buyer asks for a free pilot. A good buyer doesn't. A good buyer doesn't care about the pilot. A good good buyer cares about the results. What do we say earlier? We're looking for the good buyers
Chloe Lannert: if you sort of get happy years, because, like, we got a free pilot with Facebook. You are in for a world of hurt that you're probably talking to a bad buyer and who only has authority to get the free stuff going. We don't. Why do you care? You shouldn't care.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, this is another one
Chloe Lannert: we got a dollar $5,000 in Linkedin ads I heard from so and so that they work. Great
Chloe Lannert: my God! Like
Chloe Lannert: the amount of time that I have seen people just don't 10 k. Into this, 20 K. Into that.
Chloe Lannert: And I'm sorry. Going to a trade show is the same thing as this, unless you have real outcomes that you're driving. As a result of this like, I'm going to a trade show. I'm going to get X in return. I'm putting 5 K in ads, and I want to get y in return like. And, by the way, how do you know you're going to get y in return? Couldn't you expect 5 bucks and seen an indication of that like, what is the math here
Chloe Lannert: like? There's a real tendency to just put money in here. Sort of play, hope, chess. I hope good things happen for us. As a result of this.
Chloe Lannert: it is extremely likely that your early customers are ready to buy from you with $0 in marketing spend, you just have to email them. You just have to Linkedin. DM, them, whatever it is. And, by the way, I'm sorry I love Linkedin.
Chloe Lannert: You probably can do away with free, though, especially if you're not running any campaigns. Don't spend for it for the for the past 3 months. Go ahead. I just want to reinforce as you go through the next 4 as well. That not only isn't there. Speaking from his own experience, he was also an eir for my tech starts program, multiple years old. And this problem emerged time and time and time again, with every program, with every class number one, the free pilot. Absolutely. We just talked about it 3 weeks ago, right?
Chloe Lannert: The digital ad every single class I've ever had. We've had walk people off of the list of wanting to dump money and do it because they think it's gonna stay in their lack of sales problems.
Chloe Lannert: Where you what psychology do you face with founders that make them want to go.
Chloe Lannert: It's like if I spend 10 K. Here because I can't get it any other way.
Chloe Lannert: and they and then they don't tell you until afterwards. So they do it in hiding or in secret. Gotta watch out for that. The thing you have to realize here is like everything is an ad like a cold call is an ad
Chloe Lannert: like, what is an advertisement? An advertisement is an impression on a prospect that says, Hey, do you have this problem. If you do, I can help you click on that. Fill out a form, whatever it is. That's an ad. Well, cool email. That's an ad. It just looks like a text. But you're showing your solution, validating that they have a problem, whatever it is.
Chloe Lannert: Call the local free digital ad, spend much for you.
Chloe Lannert: And, by the way, no refunds
Chloe Lannert: like you, just you don't go to Instagram and say, Instagram, I spent 5 K. And you get no sales. Can I have a refund
Chloe Lannert: no, you need to spend another 15 like it's their job to get more money out of you. That money don't come back, and your time and effort also has a dollar amount associated with it, and you should be measuring and tracking your time and your input effort to making these impressions, and how to quantify that can all be documented and quantified.
Chloe Lannert: I showed you guys, hey? I believe in outbound like, make the list reach out to them.
Chloe Lannert: I want to put my money where my money, where my money, where my mouth is.
Chloe Lannert: This is what my marketing looks like. Look at this.
Chloe Lannert: This is my list. These are all the people that I know, and these are all looms that I made for them.
Chloe Lannert: Hey, Antonio, this is what my product does, hey, Antonio?
Chloe Lannert: There's an echo. Okay, you get the idea. I'm just saying, Hey, this is what I do. I used to be bold. I. This is what I do. Can I help you? I made. Let's roll down
Chloe Lannert: 173 of these loops, and they have led to these outcomes.
Chloe Lannert: Look.
Chloe Lannert: Existing company referral, existing company referral, existing company Referral. I make videos for Linkedin. I got 2 inbound leads from there. The rest is me making a loop to a person that either is the customer or can introduce me to the customer. This is what I'm doing. I wonder if I can help you or someone you know.
Chloe Lannert: loom costs $15 a month. And if you're good discipline and your videos are less than 5 min, it's free.
Chloe Lannert: Linkedin is free.
Chloe Lannert: Your email is free.
Chloe Lannert: Do the free
Chloe Lannert: like, cold calling? Someone is free. I need you guys sort of like, understand this, like, you don't need to spend money on the app. This is an app. I'm just me doing it for free.
Chloe Lannert: And this stuff, 1,000% works like there's no such thing as like you have to do. XY. And Z. 4 to work, I said earlier, don't blame the motion. You probably are not doing it right. I found a thing that comes naturally to me, and every fucking day I make a movie every fucking day
Chloe Lannert: like. I wonder if I can do this, for it takes me 4 or 5 min. I got good at it. I'm killer at this point, like I understand the problem. I got a little deck that I walk through. I'm in and out of it. I have to retake the whole thing early on it sucks like early on. I would do a thing, I would say, oh, whatever I'd have to reshoot the thing like I got good at it.
Chloe Lannert: Go ahead. Are you sending us through email? Did that so like
Chloe Lannert: about 60 companies. And I wasn't getting as many people actually clicking on it as I expected.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I put the link in the email. I do a text follow up. These are people that I met in the last 10 years. So there's somewhat warm connections. Remember, I'm minding my warm connections as well. I haven't gone through all of them. It's been 2 years. There's still plenty to go.
Chloe Lannert: That's my motion, I'm saying. Like guys, this is my emotion. I get like the broader point here is that this is mine.
Chloe Lannert: This gun this year is mine. It's not the best gun in the world. This is my rifle. This is my rifle. I like this rifle, so find your find your rifle, and make sure it don't cost a grand amount you don't have to like, if you're solving a big enough problem, you should be able to get your prospects for near free. That's the broader point here, and I absolutely have the results to show you guys that it does work look 7 figures in sales.
Chloe Lannert: He's gonna repeat this exact same message. This is the earliest we've ever had come in to give this talk. Sometimes he does, sometimes he doesn't even available to stop. It's a rare data just to meet you guys just to get this talk he custom prepared for you just know that you're gonna hear this from a lot of other people who are successful because it's a very, very clear pattern of feedback.
Chloe Lannert: If the promo is big enough, people will buy
Chloe Lannert: much easier to solve a bigger problem than just say, I need to spend money on my ads and spend money making like creative videos, or whatever stuff like that like. Just think how ridiculous it sounds when you want to present to the rest of your team. I got it. We're gonna super bowl ad, that's how we're gonna get customers. That's what we need. That's the only way
Chloe Lannert: you kind of sound like that when you say we gotta run Linkedin ads like you. And Linkedin is a lot closer to the super bowl app than it is we're gonna do only sales. We're gonna do the shit ourselves. I'm gonna own. My, I'm gonna hold myself responsible for outreach goals.
Chloe Lannert: extensive outsourcing. Did I have somebody hire a designer for money.
Chloe Lannert: We hired 0 agencies today. Okay, actually, this is outdated. Last month I hired an agency. I redid our website. How much time did your redesign website cost? All the designer, everything.
Chloe Lannert: This one's looking forward. You haven't gotten your website yet. So you spent $5,000.
Chloe Lannert: What'd you get me
Chloe Lannert: product? You couldn't have done the product yourselves, I mean. Again, I think we could have done, but I don't think we would have done as good of a job.
Chloe Lannert: It was a big, big question. That was our single- single largest expense last year.
Chloe Lannert: and we did hire a designer is done by someone else other than you guys, this is a little spider.
Chloe Lannert: We redesign our website. It cost us $3,000. I gave ourselves that gift after we hit a million dollars in sales. Okay, now, actually, like, let's get a sick ass looking website. Our new website is sick. It's 2, 4, 8, AI go check it out. It's awesome. It's got a little kind of like math animations in the back. It's awesome. Cost 3 K. Well, it didn't cost us 3 K. You and I talked about this because I saw you with this project. I was on that shit. 3 K. Is what he spent for someone else to do it.
Chloe Lannert: I guarantee you he spent at least $27,000 more of his own energy, time, and effort to ensure that 3 K. Was maximized.
Chloe Lannert: What I'm trying to tell you guys here is that
Chloe Lannert: it's if it's a core offering. I think it should be done by you guys
Chloe Lannert: like, I don't want you guys to be addicted to an agency to deliver a service, for that is going to determine the success of your start. You should be doing it yourselves, and if you can't do it, maybe you should do something else like pick the thing that you can do. And, by the way everything is learning. Go ahead in fairness. I don't know. I want to look into it, but knowing what I know about the Rio team, I have a suspicion that they put
Chloe Lannert: a similar amount of energy. I know I'm just giving you guys credit for that. I want you to feel like we're what you're talking about last year, and and to your point.
Chloe Lannert: So in hindsight, there's a lot we could do differently. And, by the way, when you outsource, you're not getting exactly what you want. You're burning more energy bringing people.
Chloe Lannert: You don't know how to send text messages from Chat Gpt. Great. Learn it. Learn it
Chloe Lannert: like, unless it's bound by the laws of physics. There's a very good chance that you can learn what you're about to pay an agency for. Just learn it. They did the same shit as you did. They don't have a bigger brand than you like, you guys are all clever. You guys all have access to Google. All have access to Youtube. All have access to chat, Gpt, learn the thing you're about to pay somebody to do on your behalf. And if it's truly specialized knowledge that you truly need from someone else like, ask yourself the question, like, maybe we should be doing something else. Maybe we should be doing this like this is about antenna design for circuits.
Chloe Lannert: Why are we selling antennas? We're not antenna experts. We should be doing other things like where our expertise lives. Go ahead sometimes, like, you know, some classes. It really slows me down some places like getting like spending like a very tiny amount of fiber or something with like.
Chloe Lannert: I love stuff like that. But don't get me wrong, like if it's like a small thing, help me do this perfect device, whatever. Yeah, I get it
Chloe Lannert: for large line items.
Chloe Lannert: If you have to spend the money on an agency, here's to me what's okay.
Chloe Lannert: I sold the product to the customer with the shitty interface.
Chloe Lannert: the one that doesn't look good, the one that is, you know, made with the Ti 83 calculator like this they put together with duct tape. And I basically say, Hey, come, customer, I'm gonna revise this for you. I'm gonna make you magic blue. You're gonna love it like it's awesome.
Chloe Lannert: but it's part of a signed contract, and there's an extra 20 k addendum in there for you to get that. You want it. Oh, you want it great!
Chloe Lannert: Now I'm getting that extra sale, and I'm finding the agency. And I'm going to say, Hey, that was a good investment, because it empowered 100 k. Sale. And yes, I'm allocating 20 k. Of it to redesign the product. But I know the core insight of the problem we're solving is correct.
Chloe Lannert: This is the dollar validation you need to meet. In order to make these kinds of investments. They're tied to real customer outcomes. We're going to get to that on ways in which you should spend money. Go ahead, going back to the marketing budget loom. I don't doubt the cost effectiveness, but I'm trying to assess the time effectiveness in your experience. How much more effective at getting responses have the looms been relative to just the text Linkedin outreach.
Chloe Lannert: What do you mean? So how much more likely are people to respond to a customized zoom video than you just messaging them? I don't know. I don't see, this is the thing like you can analyze these things until the cows come home. You know what I analyze doesn't work. It's binary
Chloe Lannert: and binary to me means I get the sale.
Chloe Lannert: If I get the sale. That means there's oil in the mountains. I'm gonna just keep digging. I'm gonna make a fuck on more looms. That's what I'm going to do. There's a hundred more ways I could average. I could also be comparing it to the victims of my cold calls 2 things I don't like cold calls, one looms work. Why would I bother measuring that like? This is the same thing like I could measure it just against text. But in my context, this is my rifle loom plus linkedin message seem to work
Chloe Lannert: great. I stopped analyzing. Now I'm in execution mode. Now, I'm just pumping those videos out. And that's gotta be the mindset. Right? Like I make a plan to my team in the beginning of the quarter team. I am going to make this many loops. My expected value from those loans is this many demos? I better hope we close all of them, but I'm accountable for the outreach goal. This is what I want you guys to do. And this
Chloe Lannert: I have experiments in there. I'll pull up my q. 1 marketing plan for you guys, I went to a trade show in. There was like, Okay, we expect to get this many deals out of the trade show. I did awesome. We outperformed. I got 30 meetings in the trade show was fucking sick. Let me just do a little side note here.
Chloe Lannert: I've been sitting on trade shows. I was on a trade show last week. What was yours. Then
Chloe Lannert: I met someone who went to Fintech with Schuma went to Mit, great founder
Chloe Lannert: because I wanted to compare. Here is what I did. Here's what I did. I contacted the organizers of the conference. And I said, Can I have a email list of whoever's attending
Chloe Lannert: that. What a sponsorship!
Chloe Lannert: No, what I just told you guys know. Do you think I bought a $10,000 sponsorship for that fucking conference
Chloe Lannert: absolutely open up.
Chloe Lannert: Great, very fun.
Chloe Lannert: the conference at a networking app.
Chloe Lannert: They tell you the names of the attendees, and you could message them through the app. It's a mobile app.
Chloe Lannert: I was wondering if I could access this from a browser
Chloe Lannert: I could. You could log in from a browser.
Chloe Lannert: I have a browser extension that can scrape what's on a website
Chloe Lannert: I went through, and I scraped the 2,500 attendees name company name.
Chloe Lannert: That's all I got from this app.
Chloe Lannert: Great. But that's a starting point. Because from the company name I could ask an AI agent say, Okay, give me the websites for all these companies. Coca-cola translates to Coca-cola right great. Now I have a list of names and a list of websites of these people work at. If I have the name I have the website, I have a unique identifier. I can find the linkedins of these people. Okay, great. Now, another agent, I get everybody's Linkedins. Linkedin is a unique, unique identifier. What I can do is I can go to Apollo. I can get emails for all of those people.
Chloe Lannert: Now, I have name, company, name, website, Linkedin, address of the person and verified email address, out of 2,500 people. I got 2,000 validated email addresses.
Chloe Lannert: I then wrote another ad to pay
Chloe Lannert: group. These people, where are these people? And the AI told me they're in 3 groups. They're prospects. There are other companies that you can sell to. They're investors. They invest in AI companies or they're reporters. They write articles about AI great generate a custom message for all of them doesn't have to be mega custom for reporters, I say, Hey, I can contribute to your story for investors. I say I can help you control the companies for the prospects. Say, Hey, if you have custom AI projects, let me know. I can probably help you.
Chloe Lannert: I sent 2,000 emails all to all of the people with 2 additional follow ups.
Chloe Lannert: As a result of those 2,000 emails I scheduled 30 meetings.
Chloe Lannert: People were on the Tread show floor. They had a fucking booth. Crickets. They're waiting in there hoping for the inbound leads to come to them. You know what I was doing every day 15 min back to batch
Chloe Lannert: 15 min. Boom! Boom! Can I help you? Yes, no, okay. I'm moving on great 15 min, 15 min for the follow up. And I can type out my notes next 15 min back to back.
Chloe Lannert: back to back. I'm in there. People are making fun of me in the networking room like, Oh, you're back again. Yeah, I'm back. I'm cranking. I'm getting all these Demos. That is why I'm here for it's the 3rd best feeling
Chloe Lannert: successful demo.
Chloe Lannert: As a result of those I generated 7 opportunities. Look 30 to 7.
Chloe Lannert: Not bad. Each one of those opportunities is worth $70,000 to me.
Chloe Lannert: I'm gonna close 2 of them.
Chloe Lannert: So in my math is I spent 3 K. To go to the show.
Chloe Lannert: pay for one person's admission fee, pay for the flight pay for the hotel, and I'm set to make 70,000 as a result of it. That's a damn good investment.
Chloe Lannert: I'm gonna try to squeeze out one more so I can get, you know, 2 more deals out of it.
Chloe Lannert: That's the math. That's how I operate. That to me is the investment return, and I'm accountable. I'm accountable for the rest of my team, so that that spend goes to something that's going to generate revenue for me. That's why I punch a 5 on that and say, yeah, that was a good investment. That's likely. Make us more than $100,000. That's the bet that paid off.
Chloe Lannert: it might not have paid off, but that would be the math I would share. Hey, team! I'm sorry it didn't pay off. Look, I didn't meet anybody, or I met 30 people didn't turn into any opportunities, but it ain't gonna happen unless I do the outreach, and it's certainly not bottlenecked by the number of ads, the sponsorships, the whatever find a way you can find a way.
Chloe Lannert: I think I want to share my my story. Also.
Chloe Lannert: that's okay, because everybody knows that I went there. And this is the 1st week of tech starts, but nobody knows the full story. I went there because I had a friend who was also going. I knew that he's going, and I can stay in the same hotel as him, so no hotel charge.
Chloe Lannert: He paid for my flight ticket because this company was paying to spend 0 money on the flight tickets
Chloe Lannert: did the same thing. You can see, like 3,300 people with their contact details, Linkedin, everything we extracted like the same way.
Chloe Lannert: And right now I'm kind of following with a lot of people. So you have more than
Chloe Lannert: tell your co-founder, hey, co-founder, I owe you a report.
Chloe Lannert: I will report on how many people that I have. I'm gonna set up meetings with. There's 2,500 people, and you ever reach out to all of them. I'm gonna set a follow up meetings of people that I met. My demo goal is X, and I will hit it by this goal by this date.
Chloe Lannert: If you do that great.
Chloe Lannert: Unfortunately, it's tempting to not do that. That's what I'm trying to point out here. It's time to just move on to the next problem to solve, for, like you made an investment, make the most out of it. So again, I'm not trying to pick on you by any means, just like I wasn't trying to pick on you for your for your Linkedin. I'm trying to sort of demonstrate. A mindset of like. These are not expensive. These are investments.
Chloe Lannert: but these are in essence for you to make more money for your business with the explicit goal to hold yourself accountable to those outcomes. Also, I think I have one more point which is about
Chloe Lannert: meeting people in person. I will not spend more money on going to such conferences, but there's a threshold that you have to achieve like. Initially, you have to meet people in person to build relationships. And like, I'm very new to this sector. So I don't know anyone. But I have to go to at least one or 2 college conferences in person relationships, and through them I go to more people. But I have to go to at least one or 2
Chloe Lannert: to start that, you know, networking, and then I can follow on Linkedin through them. I can reach out to more people on Linkedin. Would you want me to see in order to change your mind.
Chloe Lannert: think there has to. You have to achieve a certain threshold like without meeting anybody in person.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, I don't think I'm spending. I understand you made the point. Yeah. Your point is, you need to meet people to get early. That's great. That's your belief. I need you to explain to me the same point twice. I understand your point. What I'm asking you is the second question, which is, that's a that's a perspective.
Chloe Lannert: The other perspective is, you don't have to meet these people in person. Right like that's the counterpoint.
Chloe Lannert: Both of these are evidences.
Chloe Lannert: The 1st one has an evidence of like, maybe your past experiences books. You've read videos, you watch your colleagues, experiences some evidence, form that 1st belief.
Chloe Lannert: I'm asking what would be the believe the evidence for you to change your mind to the second one, which is, you don't need to meet these people in person. Are you aware of that evidence set. Are you even considering that evidence set?
Chloe Lannert: Because if you're just saying this is the truth, and nothing will change my mind. That's pretty arrogant.
Chloe Lannert: No, I mean, I'm not. I have a company before, so I have that experience. I've gone through that great one time like for 4 years, but I know that whatever you're saying, it makes sense that it you have to spend time and energy on cold outreach and Linkedin and all these things that actually works.
Chloe Lannert: And we have to optimize that we're talking around the point. The point that he's asking you about is about the the notion of in person needing to be necessary to make progress or not. And what evidence would change the mind? That's what he's asking. Would you need to see 10 other founders
Chloe Lannert: who sell a similar product to a similar audience that don't have in person connection.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, I really hope you're right. And I really hope that your in person deals yield outcomes for you.
Chloe Lannert: The next point that I think startups wasteline is overspending on engineering.
Chloe Lannert: This is something I really wanna double click on, because, just like what you were saying earlier. I need to be in person to get deals. You can also find yourself in a similar place. I need to have an engineering team of 5 in order for my product to work. I can really believe in these like statements.
Chloe Lannert: Maybe true, maybe not. True.
Chloe Lannert: What I have seen is that in order for you to get the early sale sale, you certainly don't need to fully make that product.
Chloe Lannert: It's okay for you to have something that is basically just works like or looks like.
Chloe Lannert: And you can then justify the engineering hire with the contract that your customer gives you.
Chloe Lannert: This is our hiring funnel.
Chloe Lannert: We hire people overseas.
Chloe Lannert: I'm a huge believer in remote work. I don't think you need to be in person is great. You don't need to have. It's like a privilege that you get to earn.
Chloe Lannert: We paid 500 bucks a week for doing a real customer project. This is how we hire people in our in my company. I'll pay you 500 bucks. Do a paid project for me. I have this real feature that I need you to ship. It's for a customer. Help me ship that $500 a week. If it's 2 weeks I'll pay you a thousand dollars for it
Chloe Lannert: if you're full time with us. We'll pay you $2,500 a month
Chloe Lannert: if you're really good, maybe 3, but not for it
Chloe Lannert: like this is our pay grade. There's real milestones with this.
Chloe Lannert: and the reason why I'm putting this up here is that that's my superpower. My co-founder is
Chloe Lannert: Pakistani American spent half his time in Karachi. I'm able to get engineers at this rate. The point here is you can build really sophisticated fortune, 500 great products with little to no engineering spend. I'm not saying, just go hire overseas developers. What I'm saying is that you don't need to have someone who worked at Instagram in the past to build something truly world class
Chloe Lannert: like the point here is, you can be frugal in your engineering stuff like there's no gating factor. I need to have Sf. Engineers to do this. Anything can be built if you have the right talent funnel, if you have the right engineering that to actually manage those folks ideally. You're doing all of this, that you're not even hiring anyone external like the product that you're offering should be doable with what you have.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, here's another one shit for your office. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: Think this is very strategic for any size, right? One of the things that we hear often is like.
Chloe Lannert: hey?
Chloe Lannert: Like a very high rates, because getting a world class player in your team is worth like 10 other players, right? And so to get in order to get that a player, or whatever you call it, you probably have to pay above some kind of deals with equity stuff like that.
Chloe Lannert: What I'm saying is, you probably don't. That's that's my point. Here. That's your okay. That's your what I'm saying is, in order for that person's salary to be justified. You should already have, like real sales, real like proof, real validation
Chloe Lannert: that justifies that 10 X engineer like that's that's what you're describing. The 10 X engineer. They're found in the wild. They're like real pokemons you have to like. Catch them with honey, like. Yes, they're amazing. I hope you yourself is a 10 X engineer like. I hope you are really, really capable.
Chloe Lannert: What I'm saying is that it certainly is unlikely to be true in order for you to find your 1st customer
Chloe Lannert: like, no, you don't need that person. You should be able to get it with a shitty version of your product. That's what I'm trying to say, if you're solving the right problem, the shit version of your product should be able to get a customer. It's not a requirement for you to get this like this is the kind of like the mindset in here like
Chloe Lannert: this, was the excuse mindset. We were talking earlier in sales. Well, if I only had this.
Chloe Lannert: If I only was in person, I'm picking on you. If I only had XY. And ZI would have sales if I only had a Facebook engineer, I would have sales. This is the thing I want to hack away. You don't need this. If you have a customer that requires that person's expertise, and they sign the contract right away.
Chloe Lannert: My God, yeah. Oh, yeah, all day, absolutely. But there's a time and place to hire world class talent. It ain't where you guys are at right now.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, this is a personal opinion.
Chloe Lannert: So I mean, very naive, innocent question about like some people
Chloe Lannert: some customers, as well as some investors, have this vanity metric. And they ask, how many people do you have in your team? And they judge
Chloe Lannert: your strength based on the business of your full time team. So how much is it like important for us to, you know, like
Chloe Lannert: this is a
Chloe Lannert: like a trend line that I'm seeing like immediately. Have you guys heard the company called Cursor?
Chloe Lannert: What do they do? Why are they famous?
Chloe Lannert: There is one thing in the large Kevin.
Chloe Lannert: but they have a team of 20.
Chloe Lannert: They have a hundred 1 million in Aaron.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know about you, but like that's fucking impressive emails better.
Chloe Lannert: It's a sick ass product. I use it. It's great.
Chloe Lannert: Who are you trying to impress here?
Chloe Lannert: No, I mean just to just to clarify. I know it doesn't matter, but I'm asking from from a customer's point of view, and also from an investor's point of view, who's probably going to fund us in the future? Do they look at it? And if yes, like, how do we create a story?
Chloe Lannert: I believe the days of our team is X are over
Chloe Lannert: with AI. What's going to be more value in this fundraising environment are small teams who are one and done. Hey, we're raising the series a round and we're done.
Chloe Lannert: After that you win.
Chloe Lannert: Go ahead. Also. I would argue that no great investor asks that question. Your cat table is going to value that over what you value, which is a more efficient team.
Chloe Lannert: And I think it's not only assigned now, but that question is actually more common among journalists.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, because they can report that and demonstrate that and talk about that. So if you work backwards from the intention of the question, I think you already know this. But I guess the only advice, feedback we're offering is that you probably don't even want those people on your
Chloe Lannert: beefficiently.
Chloe Lannert: Be efficient. That's gonna be way more valuable for your long term.
Chloe Lannert: And, by the way, that's what makes you, in my opinion, more investable by world class investors, world class investors look for teams that are scrappy as hell, and they make do with what we have. Government contracts care about that. So sometimes, like a lot of political. If you have political ties or connections or need for capital. They want to know jobs that you're creating and things like that, and maybe that matters for a certain kind of business. So there's always like a nuance to where that question is coming from. Depending on the context.
Chloe Lannert: I wanna talk about this a little bit.
Chloe Lannert: Startup founders are tempted to get nice chairs, nice monitors, coffee machines, and shit like that.
Chloe Lannert: Apologize to me is what I would tell is that I like a nice monitor myself, too, like I get it.
Chloe Lannert: What I'm saying is my co-founder and I didn't allow us to get new laptops until we had 500 K. In sales like we set that goal ourselves, we said, you know what
Chloe Lannert: shitty laptops until 500 K.
Chloe Lannert: I love that
Chloe Lannert: like nice coffee machine when we hit a million dollars. That's my, that's my current goal. I want to buy myself a new rolex and win a million dollars a quarter. That's my little Mount Everest, that I'm trying to climb. That coffee tastes better. That monitor looks better.
Chloe Lannert: I want office crap to be a reward for performance, not something that you get because you raise money like it's a thing that you should gift yourself on, but when you see it you should remind yourself.
Chloe Lannert: damn! We had a million dollars that quarter that was sick. Go ahead
Chloe Lannert: again. Not the spirit of what you're saying, just a counter example.
Chloe Lannert: I did exactly that, and I had a crappy laptop that was a chromebook that was crappy.
Chloe Lannert: and I moved to a batch.
Chloe Lannert: and that was more expensive, and I thought, it's a good model, and it was more expensive than my.
Chloe Lannert: It changed my productivity amazing. And and so so I kind of again the the I think a little bit of the push back I would I would have on. That is also kind of being super careful that
Chloe Lannert: there's kind of luxuries, and there are things that are kind of really make more productive.
Chloe Lannert: and that trade off is the is the-the-, the thing that I'm I'm trying to.
Chloe Lannert: I can argue the same point in saying, like I fly economy, plus because my back really hurts. Okay, I'm saying, fly coach.
Chloe Lannert: that's my point, I'm saying, have a shitty laptop. That's my guys. I'm here to share with you guys my perspective. I'm telling you that the way I operate my businesses is, we have shitty laptops. We fly coach. Yeah, you're gonna fight by the cheaper airport. You're gonna fly spirit, that's what that's that's us like. And to get the nice shit I want to see results
Chloe Lannert: like, that's how I operate with my team. So far. So good. This is what I'm trying to share with you guys. If you want these kinds of nice things, set business objectives, hit it, and then reward yourself with that thing. That's a that's a way. Better way to get those nice things. One thing I just learned that's new about Techsart's expense policy. Something I never knew is that if you're on a flight it's over 5 h.
Chloe Lannert: that is, as a company. We're okay to say, all right, that's an economy of plus upgrade. We'll pay for that. But otherwise you're paying for coach.
Chloe Lannert: So that's not limited luxury. We're not riding high and having nice flight. We fly coaches that starts unless you have flight longer than 5 h. Company is kind enough to say, All right, we'll pay you back soon. I didn't know. That's great, thank you. But like, but that's a sensible policy for a company in our size with our resources. Right?
Chloe Lannert: So just be mindful of your context, and what you think is a working lesson to your team. These luxuries are gifts, and you should be treating them as rewards as sort of like. Okay, we did something great. That's your reminder that that's why we got okay. Last thing I'll say, here is that dead weight?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, if anyone is asking for equity to advise you, they're probably the wrong advice for you, like.
Chloe Lannert: I'm just saying right now I've seen way more than weights on people's cap tables, for, like the one introduction somebody made, you have 2 productive meetings with them, and now they have 2% of fucking equity in your company, and they're sitting there for the rest of time. Yes, equity is easy to give away, impossible to remove.
Chloe Lannert: You and I have literally seen deals together that fall through because of this. What's that? Who's that? Why, they have 2%. Oh, that 1,200 left. Why, this left 50% of the business.
Chloe Lannert: You don't understand how radioactive that makes you in your business that makes you an uninvestable company.
Chloe Lannert: And yes, it's a really awkward conversation to go to an advisor whom you had given 1% equity to. There is a 1 year clip on that for a reason and have a phone call where you say to that person, Hey, I'm sorry
Chloe Lannert: we're exercising the thing that makes you 0% owner like you don't own equity in this company. It's real awkward. They're gonna be like, oh, but I introduce you to Jim, and like, well, what about the good times we had, and, like my cat, ate my homework. But yeah, it's awkward. Have it.
Chloe Lannert: Say, fuck all to any of that, and say, equity is reserved for key employees, not every employee key employees. People have earned their weight around here as well as key investors, people who are giving us real dollars and showing us real support in our journey.
Chloe Lannert: That's what equity is reserved for. It's real tempting. There's a lot of vultures in the startup world that will ask for this kind of equity they make a living, because, like they got a lot of portfolio of these like, I advise companies on the side bullshit. Whatever. Don't
Chloe Lannert: people will advise you, they'll do it happily out of the kindness of their own eye. Do you guys think that I'm here like because I ain't got enough shit to do. I'm running the business guys like I'm taking my fucking time out of my day to help you guys out because I care. I care about Neil. I care about tech starts. I care about all of you.
Chloe Lannert: There's plenty of people like me that will help you out, and the only reason why we do. It is we're paying it forward. Look, it's really straightforward. A lot of people help us out in the journey. Then that's for shit in return. All they ask for is, Hey, pay it forward! That's 1 of the most beautiful things about the Startup world. People do pay it forward, find the people who do. They're typically the more competent people. Anyway, they shouldn't have to sort of like gate keep their advice from you, based on some percentage point that you're supposed to give to them.
Chloe Lannert: Sorry, I'll go ahead with one quick point. Get your feedback on this. Some people might be concerned that 10 stars could be considered too much space on the fact table that they're giving up.
Chloe Lannert: And what I would, you know, typically posit, is
Chloe Lannert: that then waste is not a reflection on us. It's more of a reflection on you, and what you chose to utilize. So for any space on your captivity taken up.
Chloe Lannert: that is a legitimate concern if you have too much space taken up. But can you actually explain why you've allocated that equity and what value you're getting from it.
Chloe Lannert: That's the point. So, regardless of that amount, make sure you actually have explainable reason for why pieces of your business have been allocated to other people other than the founding team.
Chloe Lannert: Here's why I believe a techstars investment is worthwhile. I'm speaking here as an objective party. I don't work for techstars like I'm friends with Neil, but that's about it, like, I don't have a dog in this fight. I care about organization, and I believe founders can get value out of this experience you're going through in 3 specific ways. If you're not utilizing these 3 things, that's all you. As Neil said, number one.
Chloe Lannert: techstars companies can become your customers.
Chloe Lannert: I ran this email campaign for a techstars. Portfolio company. We went to Techstar's website. We scraped all text companies from all batches 20 like November 2011, all the way to 2025, every company, from every every program. It's a scrapable list. You can go to Techstar's website and just find out all those companies. We then find everybody who ever worked at a tech starts company like Hey, like Go Linkedin at some point. If that's part of your past experience. That's a list. There's about 5,000 people ever worked at a tech starts company in that list.
Chloe Lannert: They wrote the email in the following way, hey? 1st name, I'm going through textiles right now. I saw that you were part of X company during Y batch. I need help with XY and Z. Can I help on a 15 min? Call with you?
Chloe Lannert: Response rate one in 25.
Chloe Lannert: I said, world class email like one in 300.
Chloe Lannert: That's 12 times better.
Chloe Lannert: That's an insane network that you guys are joining into. Use. It. Milk it. Those are your future customers. Those are your future advisors. Those are your future investors like. If a company has exited and the person had a phenomenal time in tech starts, you really think they're not going to take the call with you potentially, Angel investing in you.
Chloe Lannert: You're part of a network, but it's a network that's invisible unless you choose to use it. That's number one, number 2.
Chloe Lannert: You are going to meet more investors. And, by the way, you should be going through the Linkedin, what was your name? Again? I'm sorry I forgot
Chloe Lannert: you should go through Angie's Linkedin. Be like, hey, Angie, I see you're connected to her. Can you introduce to murder like Angie's not gonna wake up one day and go. You know what I should do?
Chloe Lannert: No, hey? Something awesome that I love to see. What's the company that you be pick up with the
Chloe Lannert: what's the video game with the teacup? Oh, Chamber Alex from Chamber Alex from Chamber, hits me up once a month. This Motherfucker's like, hey? I saw you're connected to so and so would you be willing to make an introduction? 6 out of the last 7 times? I said, no.
Chloe Lannert: I sort of don't know him well enough. I met them a while ago. I can't make a warm introduction. This dude asked me to step in time, and I made the intro.
Chloe Lannert: This is the spirit like you. It's your job to chase these connections, so you can make more messages through this network. And here's the 3rd thing, and it's perhaps the most valuable thing. All of you are trying to do something really hard. Yeah. Building. A server is really fucking hard welcome to the Inferno. Kitchen's hot trying to cook some shit.
Chloe Lannert: This difficulty gets infinitely easier if you're trying to do it. Amongst other people who are also doing hard things.
Chloe Lannert: do hard things with other people who enjoy doing hard things. This is it.
Chloe Lannert: This journey you're on is so much easier when you're sharing the wins empathizing all the l's. Don't worry. We've got another day. We're gonna keep going. That's the reason why you're here, and that comes from you receiving and helping help your peers, your your cohort mates in here, and that's the 3rd reason why it should be valuable. If you don't find value in these things. What are you doing here? You're taking up space for someone else who can enjoy these things anyways, rant over. Why, tech stars is valuable. Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: This is the important point that I'm trying to make here. This is why we don't have dead weight on our cap table. We've raised $0. Equity split 50 between co-founders. That's how it works. And again, the point here is that you don't need these. You'll need an advisor to make progress in your business. I'm the demonstration that you don't need it.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, a lot of you have brought this up already.
Chloe Lannert: I want an honest reflection, one through 6.
Chloe Lannert: If you're doing one of these things
Chloe Lannert: first.st Be honest with yourself, hey? We're doing the one through. We're doing number 4. We've got a nice monitor, you know. I'm not saying this to embarrass you guys, I'm saying to say, acknowledge these things like you're doing this. Are you getting something in return? Are you? Is this an expense, or is this an investment?
Chloe Lannert: Be brutally honest, and not that your board is asking you to be honest, you should be honest with yourself, like. It's in your interest to do this. Resourcefulness is the goal, not resources, like too many resource. First, st time is a bad thing. Just accept this like, hey? We have little resources. That's a really good thing. We're going to build a better product. As a result of this.
Chloe Lannert: every point is also accounted for.
Chloe Lannert: There's certainly things that I believe you should be spending money on.
Chloe Lannert: I'm gonna talk about that, too.
Chloe Lannert: There's a common theme in all 6 of these things which I hope some of you will be able to tell me after the fact. But let's start
Chloe Lannert: number one. I think you should be making contact. Most content is near free. It's your time. But you should be making videos on Linkedin that help your customer serve before you sell right like, hey customer, you likely have this problem. Here's how we fix it. Let me know if it's interesting. 7 likes no problem. If one of that 7 is a potential customer that's tremendously valuable. Yeah, give 1st
Chloe Lannert: and content for your customers. Not content, for, like, Hey, this is my vacation from here. Nobody cares, I'm saying, like, Hey, like a demonstration of value for your customers. This is where your freebies will continue to come and give you more and more and more like. We have this, for example, I put together one pager of like, Hey, if you want to do stuff for free with AI, here's a 1 pager of all resources, no code tools, Youtube classes whatever like here it goes for free. I really enjoy doing stuff. Here you go.
Chloe Lannert: It helps your customers make progress. Your customers are more likely to buy from you if your free stuff is already helping them make more progress like this is the unlock here. Content should feel like that I'm showing you how to do something.
Chloe Lannert: This is how customer a did this that is worth its weight in gold, and I think you should be spending resources in that now, knowing me, I think you should do it for near free, like I'm recording this lecture here. I'm going to use probably some shit down the road. You get the idea here like you should be making near free content. But that's a good investment of your time that will be getting you more customers.
Chloe Lannert: You're first, st you said. I have the slide ready, profitable sales, spots. So this is what I mean by having a sales rep that pays for themselves, you might have a complex product, it might require an account executive, and a Cr and a sales rep. Whatever it is. The point here is that you should not be hiring a sales rep units, either as one person or a collection of people, until you know the math that pays for themselves.
Chloe Lannert: and if you have that dude, let's hire 20 leads awesome. They pay for themselves in 4 months.
Chloe Lannert: That's a good reason to raise money, by the way like, if you say to an investor, Hey, investor, I already got it. This combo cost, this makes this. I need 20.
Chloe Lannert: It's going to take me the next 2 years to accumulate that amount of profits. I need it now, and I think we can do a really like aggressive move right now. But I know it's going to make me more money that is music to investors.
Chloe Lannert: But someone take that conversation and meeting back to the committee and go. Let me tell you about this founder address.
Chloe Lannert: because very few of them come correct in the way that you just broke out.
Chloe Lannert: But that's what we're trying to coach you all to do.
Chloe Lannert: You got to break down your sales steps. I gave you mine, the list, the demo, the close, the fulfillment. Right. Those are. Those are the 4 steps in my sales, lexicon. Yours might be different. Yours might be. You go to a trade show. You meet some people that turns into a demo that Demos turn into contracts. Whatever like you have your rifle, you have your outreach.
Chloe Lannert: You should hire specifically for those things. Maybe you hire someone to go to trade show on your behalf. Right? Because, hey, we already figured out, trade shows make us money great. Let's go to 5 of them. How many hours in the day
Chloe Lannert: I'm going to hire someone to go to the trade show on my behalf. Good investment, because you have this positive return as a result of this. That's why I want you guys to stop thinking about like hiring these sales teams. There's specific things you might say, like making the list takes too much of my time. Okay, I'm going to hire someone on Fiverr to make the list for me. They're going to do this research, whatever it is. But the steps here are all revenue generating things for you. You've already identified that there's a predictable path here for this to make more money for us
Chloe Lannert: customer success. I think you should be obsessive about how happy your customers are. We already talked about this. This is the greatest thing in the world of startups. A genuine thank you. And making your customer happy is the greatest sale that you're going to get, because it's going to yield more sales for you guys. So if you have an existing customer and your shit sucks, fix it like that should be the 1st sales motion in your business.
Chloe Lannert: And, by the way, this is your roadmap for features. If you need to build new stuff to make that customer happy. Great! You're a tech company. Build out a feature like that is what was needed. You just didn't know that was needed in your in your product.
Chloe Lannert: And the way to answer that is this, I said. World class products pay for themselves. In 3 months. Your customer should be bragging with you in 3 months or less. If you're selling to a business like easiest way to do that is, if it paid for itself, but maybe save them a whole department. Maybe it saved them an embarrassment. Maybe there was a thing that was taking them. Time they normally have to do it. This should be in brag mode in 90 days. That's what a world class product does
Chloe Lannert: customer specific expertise. We talked about this. You can hire an expert
Chloe Lannert: to solve a particular problem if it's tied to a customer outcome like for this customer to be right. We have to solve for email deliverability. Okay, hire the expert for it. But make sure it's tied to a contract like it's only higher when we have set a customer to validate. This is something that we need in order to fulfill this real thing. That's when you score a 5 in the in that screen.
Chloe Lannert: We did this for even ourselves, like we didn't really know how we ended up. Not ended up in spam folders. There's a right way to do it. We hired the expert, but only after we got the custom report.
Chloe Lannert: okay, season leadership. This is a thing that do cost a lot of money, and the way you do it, by the way you hire your mentors, your mentors should be seasoned leaders, that you already give you advice, and once you're doing really well, they've already helped you. Yes, you can pay up the 1st for that. Exactly what you said. There is a tennis higher in there in those seasoned leaders. But the world class sales leader will rock your world. But you've got to earn that person.
Chloe Lannert: They get to show that person, hey? I'm already making money. I've been making way more with you. They don't take it from 0 to one. They take 10 to a hundred. They're not useful in the earlier stages. They need to have something that already kind of sort of works. My greatest I ever talk about that in my founder story. I learned so much from this person.
Chloe Lannert: but it was possible, because we already had a million dollars in sales by the time it came board. You don't attract someone like Vince. If all you have is nothing. Burger, does that make sense?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, last is design. We'll go back to the point that we made earlier.
Chloe Lannert: There is an opportunity to spend money on making things professional, but not at the start. But at the start. It's actually a good thing that your product is already sellable with the shitty version.
Chloe Lannert: Once things are going. Yeah. Polish, ui, polish website, polish content. These things don't matter. Of course they matter, but not at the start. Only when they start already making you money, like, I believe a product justifies like it earns almost the good nice dress as a ui as an outfit. Once they've shown that they can deliver value to a customer in the undressed version in the shitty version like, it's okay to not have a ui. If the Api already works and delivers something.
Chloe Lannert: But one thing that doesn't cost much, and I think you should emphasize are the words
Chloe Lannert: words are cheap, but extremely important.
Chloe Lannert: So if you get the invite, and most of y'all don't have invite right yet on your website, at least on the homepage. When I get there.
Chloe Lannert: That's an investment you can make right now, a hundred percent, a hundred percent talk to your customers.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, I need you guys to answer me this question out of all these things that I described, that all cost money does not cost money, season leadership cost money. It's profitable sales cost money. What is the common element in all of them? Go ahead. They make money.
Chloe Lannert: they're investments. They're not expenses. This is the key differentiator here. And I want you guys to start thinking about that. If something is costing you money, you should be making you money.
Chloe Lannert: If it's not making money, you should not be spending it. That's the 1 point in this entire hour that we spent together. If it's not making you money, you should not be spending it.
Chloe Lannert: You've got to have the spidey sense, and the spidey sense happens if you do, the discipline exercise of the Scrooge Mcduck review every line that goes out the door. You ask the team, why do we spend this? Why, it's the easiest question to ask, why do we spend this?
Chloe Lannert: It was spent. Somebody made that decision to go somewhere. Yeah, what are we gonna get in return? Like it should be a normal question to ask, like, it kind of felt like I was interrogating. You guys right? Like, why did you spend this and that, whatever? That's not a nice feeling. But if you do it all the time. It's not gonna feel like that. It's gonna be like, well, of course, we ask about this with everything that we spend in this business. That's just how things are in this company.
Chloe Lannert: The awkwardness will erode if you make it a habit.
Chloe Lannert: and the habit has to be decided by you guys, you have to decide that in this business we ask the question on every single thing that goes out the door. That's just how we operate around here and over under which company is going to be more successful with the one that asked the question, or the one that doesn't ask the question long term. The one that asks the question wins 10 out of 10 times. You have competition right now. Some of your competition is more resourceful than you.
Chloe Lannert: They're gonna beat you.
Chloe Lannert: That's how this happens. Like, it's very, very unlikely that you guys are the only ones working on what you're doing right now. It's extremely unlikely
Chloe Lannert: if you have a problem we're solving. There's a hundred teams working on it. 10 of them are smarter than you. 10 of them are better funded than you. You have to decide to be the one that out. Excuse all of them, and your spending is a core component of that. What you allow to be done in your business
Chloe Lannert: spend is a management tool like you ultimately saying that this behavior is okay. And this behavior is not okay. That's how you manage a growing and large organization.
Chloe Lannert: You gotta review your spend daily, weekly, monthly, exactly like I showed you guys.
Chloe Lannert: And you have to be ruthless. You have to have 0 fear it should almost be a normal thing. Hey? That thing that approved a month ago. We're no longer doing it. It's okay. Move on. It's not making us the money. It's not the results that we thought we would. It's totally fine for us to move on from it. No problem at all. It's a normal activity for early stage startup, and if somebody feels some type of way about it. But you say we would do it, you should respond by saying, but you said you would deliver results. I'm not seeing the results. So what the fuck like it should be a normal exchange like that person shouldn't be wondering why you're cutting the spend.
Chloe Lannert: And, by the way, just as much as you're ruthlessly cutting the spend you should aggressively spend on things that make you money like the other side is also true. If you see a gold mine lose, make me money, man, bang! That shit out, make all the fucking lose in the world. You have a free hour in the day. Make another lose like that's the counterbalance to this thing. Once you've found the gold mine. You're all hunting for oil. There is a hill we're digging.
Chloe Lannert: Damn! We've got a gusher here great to all all the chips in this place.
Chloe Lannert: Your ability to move fast shows up like this. A startup moves fast, and you can make decisions fast to spend money or only to cut money. This is one of your superpowers only if you use it. This is also the case for capital. Yeah. So just to be really clear, a lot of people talk about. They want to raise money, but they don't have anything that they can justify aggressively spending money on.
Chloe Lannert: But when a founder goes to an investor or a set of investors, and has a plan in mind about what they want to do with the capital that is real, that is compelling, and it is rare for founder to come out the gate doing that. So what he's sharing here is, I think, a largely undocumented
Chloe Lannert: success pattern that we have seen coming up in entrepreneur. You'll hear about this tomorrow night, and it's founder story. But just to be clear, this is what separates the founders that we know that have been wildly successful, and all the ones that are disgruntled or unhappy with their journey.
Chloe Lannert: This is the pattern recognition.
Chloe Lannert: Take it away.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, we're done with chapter 2.
Chloe Lannert: And I want you guys to walk away with this question
Chloe Lannert: as a result of this conversation, what are we going to change? If you sat through in here for the past hour and 15, and you walk away with well, life, this goes on as exactly as it was before. I'm sorry I wasted your time. You're going to be unsuccessful, like something is going to have to change. You're either gonna have to get into this like investor mindset where dollar spent are like investments that should yield us some return, or some disciplined habit building around like, Hey, we review expenses weekly in this pitch. That's what we do in this company. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: So you've you've gone through that domain a number of times.
Chloe Lannert: How would you say that you've become more useless over time of cutting money, or less of always been that way. In my 1st company I thought I was ruthless about spend. I thought I genuinely thought I was. I was like man, we fucking look at everything in this company. We got a financial model, whatever
Chloe Lannert: dude that company at some point was burning $400,000 a month.
Chloe Lannert: But think about how? What a ridiculous amount of money $400,000 is like
Chloe Lannert: people work for like 10 years to like. Put a savings account of like $400,000, like $400,000 is an absurd amount of money. If you were to just like. Think about what you do with $400,000 like if it would just lay it on the table or something.
Chloe Lannert: If you raise a shit ton of money. Unfortunately, that becomes funny money. It just becomes like a little number like in a video game. Those are the points that I have or something. This last company I'm running.
Chloe Lannert: I raised $0. I feel it like
Chloe Lannert: I have expenses. I have real salaries. I got to make. I have real money in the bank account. But I've generated money, and I'm telling you right now it's way more like, what are we doing this with this? What are we doing with that? There's something funny that happens when it's Bootstrap versus venture. I've lived it on both sides, and I'm not telling you guys to not raise money like it's a tool for a company, but it ain't the same when it's really, really your money. And I want you guys sort of like, imagine when you raise venture, it is your money.
Chloe Lannert: You just converted your equity into cash today, but that that is your money, like an investor, is giving you that money for a future return of more money.
Chloe Lannert: That means that the equity that you sold them today is literally worth more. Like you've done this trade off
Chloe Lannert: I
Chloe Lannert: like. There's no words in English that can describe to me how like menial I am about this kind of stuff right now. And, by the way. Yeah, it takes time. It's a good use of my investment of my time, and I go down to even like monthly spend on Udemy. We're spending $30 a month on this. Why did we use it last month, or I'm cutting it 30 bucks. I'm cutting it. It adds up 30 months over 12 months, 360 bucks. That's 1 week of engineering time for my dad as well. It's like I need this mindset constantly.
Chloe Lannert: So over time I became more picky.
Chloe Lannert: and I'm happy that I did. I'm running a profitable company. I made more money. As a result of this I skipped around like, think about what that means. Like every round in your company values about 10 to 20%.
Chloe Lannert: We want to decide to raise right now. But we skip the seed run. I'm not going to be raising series a valuations. Well, I've made a million dollars already. I've derised the business tremendously like I can decide to raise right now. Still, that option doesn't go away.
Chloe Lannert: but the terms of which I will raise right now is significantly better than I was. If I was a year ago, with like little to nothing to show for it.
Chloe Lannert: And, by the way, I don't plan on raising it, I'm just gonna be profitable. Keep going.
Chloe Lannert: Question about you said at the beginning
Chloe Lannert: you should pay yourself everything else.
Chloe Lannert: So again, by my situation, if I actually don't pay myself if I spend some money on, for example.
Chloe Lannert: and the reason why I do that is because I believe that you know
Chloe Lannert: it's it just. It makes more sense in terms of our why for me. So
Chloe Lannert: how kind of how do you kind of, yeah. I'm a real believer in like, if business has achieved certain milestones you should pay yourself like. If I've generated $800,000 in sales.
Chloe Lannert: I'm saying, here is that a board that tells you, hey? You're a founder, you should pay yourself $70,000 a year for the next 10 years. It's fucking asshole. No, if I have the results I'm paying myself, I'll pay the shit out of myself, and that's a good thing, for 2 reasons. One, it puts my appetite down for me to like. I need to sell the company right now, so I can play the long game but 2.
Chloe Lannert: I don't want you to be doing anything else like there are founders who supplement themselves by driving Uber on the side dude. How many hours is that? 1520 HA week? Put that money in the stuff. Put that time in the startup. You're going to get further faster. I really don't believe in this sort of like enslavement mentality of like, you know what founders they don't pay themselves. Jeff Bezos didn't take a dollar. Jeff Bezos, the wealthiest man in the world, like, yeah, it doesn't matter, you know, like those days are over.
Chloe Lannert: you should be okay with making a living wage like, either through the promise you made or the money that you you raised, and that should be competitive like, maybe it's not going to be the Facebook salary that you could have made. But it should not be like asshole like nothing. Nothing money. You should think yourself. Okay, in order for me to live comfortably in San Francisco. That doesn't require for me to have another job. I just make $180,000. Okay, great. Run the model like, think around how much sales you have to generate, how much money you have to raise, whatever it is for you to pay yourself there
Chloe Lannert: once you pay yourself. That done, that means I want a hundred dollars every every all the time goes into this thing. So this is a marathon, not a sprint. There's only so much you can do by paying yourself nothing for so long. But you're I want to call you old, but you're not a child anymore. You have responsibilities, you know. Maybe you have a family that you need to support
Chloe Lannert: if you end up quitting because this life sucks, everybody loses. So I believe in that message. In my case I'm the one who's responsible. My co-founder and I look at each other and go 20 K. Bonus this month. Yeah, yeah. High fives. Boom, boom! Great, done like, that's the best outcome right? Because we made all that money. It's got to go somewhere and put it in my pocket.
Chloe Lannert: If if you don't have that, that's still okay, you're still the board to convince. But have the commission to say, like, Hey board, I'm gonna pay myself if I deliver results. A, B and C, that's okay. That should be walked up by by the whiteboard. 2 gotchas. Here one is good investors value that paying themselves 2 is a bus factor. Anyone who knows what a bus factor is. Basically.
Chloe Lannert: you have to replace what you do with someone else. So there's a role there. And then. Founders tend to lie about their profitability over profitable right things. No.
Chloe Lannert: Are you ready?
Chloe Lannert: So that happens all the time where we skim the numbers to project that we're performing in a certain way. But we're not doing nothing to think about our actual expenses.
Chloe Lannert: So they on the lookout for is that it's okay for you to make money while you're running the company. As long as the company making money like correct, if the company is profitable. Yeah, pay yourself. There's no need to suffer through this. You're gonna be doing this for the next 8 to 10 years. That's okay.
Chloe Lannert: But with results is what I'm trying to say. Like, don't tap into the tech stars wanted to pay yourself. That's gonna run out real quick. It's gonna pay for the next 3 months. Right? It's like, it's not sustainable.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, it's 10 to 6.
Chloe Lannert: We were supposed to be done at 6 o'clock.
Chloe Lannert: If you guys have somewhere to be, you are welcome to leave. We'll show you the recording of the last part of this conversation.
Chloe Lannert: I'm gonna be here until I I promise to get you guys out of here by 6, 45. If you guys can stick around for another 45 min. We'll do a break now, if you guys want to say, Hi, thank you. I'm moving on to dinner. I got a date tonight totally cool. No hard feelings we went over. If you guys willing to stay part 3 coming up in 7 min, we'll start at 6 o'clock sharp.
Chloe Lannert: Okay?
Chloe Lannert: And we use that money to build a platform. And then, like, while we're building platform, we're also giving them the customer use case. That's the business.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, it looks like a services
George Haikal: Really like facts like I guess you now think like oh, they should
George Haikal: 3 and a half months, 3 and a half months from start code to acquire companies.
George Haikal: And then the this current company 2, 48 that was just basically like my co-owner. And I'm building stuff
George Haikal: whatever comes with it. And of course it was gonna be like one of those. And then the customers that we found were like maybe another thing with another thing. But everybody is kind of like a world now where we are. So we're just basically giving them to. Oh, let's make the customers. Us.
George Haikal: we're agent builders. Eventually, anyone's gonna be an agent builder. But the agent builders need agent building tools. So that's the product. The agent builder is the product and all the things that the agents do are like the services that fund the agent building. Basically, that's how we'll sort of plan
George Haikal: if you want us to write a proposal for you.
George Haikal: Okay? Bye.
George Haikal: because the agent that wants some digital research.
George Haikal: but no brainer for you people who have.
George Haikal: And I'm already very, very small, rich people problems. What I mean by that is that in your customer sort of like, see.
George Haikal: there's big fish to the small fish they like. They all have similar problems. Let's say, like, let's just go back to like email conversions. Right? Like, we have an email newsletter we sent, you know, a thousand people. Newsletter turns into one customer like that's their solution. That improves that by 20%. So you know, now, a thousand people will yield 2 customers making up numbers.
George Haikal: If the product you're selling is worth a hundred grand. That's a lot bigger of a problem like
George Haikal: great. An extra 1% is going to yield that much more like, imagine you're selling a solution, and it reduces abandoned marks for e-commerce companies. So like you have some solution, people have stuff in the car and they leave without doing the full checkout. And you have an AI agent that says, Oh, by the way, like, before you leave, I have a discount code convert, and it does some conversion improvement. If that e-commerce company is making 20 million dollars a year, that 20% is worth a lot more. What you should do is similar to what Tesla did.
George Haikal: This is a sports truck, expensive, limited, only reserved for a small group of people. The money made from that funds the sedan. Now it's a little bit more available, but still expensive. The Sedan funds the model 3 widely accessible. Anybody can use this. Your startup should follow a similar path. You can aim to build like a democratic design tool that anybody can access to whatever car dealerships with our tool, and it could be as small as 10 people in the car dealership.
George Haikal: I don't want to sell to them. First, st
George Haikal: I wanna sell to the car dealership conglomerate that has, like 3,000 employees and improve their sales by a certain percentage point, use it as a customer success story to get the middle of the market and middle market to get to the wide market like even this quarter, like
George Haikal: startup founders have this like Eto. Sometimes like, I want to help the little people great do it in 3 years.
George Haikal: Help the big people first, st like the order in which how you do things matter which is the point of this next conversation. What order should you be doing things to create customer value? That was the original doesn't have to be the end. All be all destination here like you can start off like that.
George Haikal: Okay, brave souls who made it to this final part. 1st of all, thank you. I apologize for taking more of your time.
George Haikal: This is the Phd thesis. Like, if I basically had one thing to share with you guys, this would be it.
George Haikal: I play a lot of chess.
George Haikal: That's my favorite game in the world, you know. You play live chat. Okay, we'll just play sometime
George Haikal: in chess. There's 2 ways you can get good.
George Haikal: You don't have to know the rules of chess to follow along here. The one way you can get good at chess is tactics, meaning that there's something to do, and we're going to do that. And there's a right rule to make like if I move the Bishop from here to here. That's the best move in the position, and that gets me to win. At least that gets me to checkmate the king, whatever it is, whatever the objective that you want to do. There's a right thing to do, and you do it
George Haikal: in your case might be we have a opportunity. We have a proposal. That damn thing gotta get signed. Everybody knows that. That is what needs to happen. Let's go make that thing happen. We have a bug. It's gotta be fixed. Let's fix the bug, the customers complaining about it.
George Haikal: Tactics is knowing what to do when there's something to do.
George Haikal: Strategy is knowing what to do when there's nothing to do.
George Haikal: You're gonna find yourself in these places when you're building your company. What do we do next?
George Haikal: What are we doing?
George Haikal: Can you repeat those tactics
George Haikal: like tactical excellence. You should be tactically excellent in what you're doing like you should show up to a demo prepared right like there's a demo. We're gonna do the shit out of this demo. There's something to do, and we do it well.
George Haikal: Tactics is knowing what to do and doing it well when there's something to do. Strategy is knowing what to do when there's nothing obvious to do like. It's not immediately obvious to us which feature we should build. There's 3 options in here which one we built first.st
George Haikal: How do we decide?
George Haikal: This is a really interesting and difficult question.
George Haikal: how will you decide what to do? How do you say this is the biggest priority in the business? Remember what I said earlier about your startup as a factory is a complex machine with tons of problems in it. But you have to pick the one thing that you should fix like the problem, the bottleneck.
George Haikal: How do we decide? How do we decide what is the problem that we should be investing our time, energy, and resources in knowing that we have limited resources. The point of this talk is to have an attempt in answering that question. This is ultimately what startup strategy is all about. Startup strategy, if done right, shows up as insanely happy customers and insanely happy customers are produced. If you have an insanely good product, so it ultimately is about delivering value and figuring out what to do to deliver more and more value is what we're going to explore. Okay.
George Haikal: what's the win condition here, like the startups for a video game? How do we win this video game. I said, tactics, strategy? Well, that's for chess. How do we win the startups? What are you guys trying to do?
George Haikal: Money? But what what do you mean? What kind of money?
George Haikal: Customer, money, customer money, what kind of customer money?
George Haikal: Just a moment.
George Haikal: Predictable customer money.
George Haikal: I like to think that product market fit meaning that you're making your product. That's flying off the shelves like people can't have enough of it. You're no longer constrained by demand, like people are flooding at you. They're signing up for the wait list. They're chomping at the bits to get your products. That's what product market fit looks like. You're no longer pushing the boulder up the mountain. It's rolling down the hill like people are saying like more, give us more. You have the best thing ever I need more of it to me, translates to profitable and predictable customer value.
George Haikal: Profitable as if we're no longer priced, based on how shit costs us.
George Haikal: We're profitable because the results we're delivering to our customer is so great they're paying us an outsized amount of money for it. It doesn't matter how much our stuff costs. The value is just that much greater. If I'm improving. Conversion rates for an e-commerce company that makes 20 million dollars a year by 20%. That means I am adding net net 4 million dollars of revenue for that customer. Do you think they care if your ship costs 10 k. Or 20 K.
George Haikal: They're making 4 million from it. It doesn't matter.
George Haikal: The value is insane, but it's also predictable that you've also sold for your funnel, meaning I have to follow this many people. I have to have this many Demos, and I have to have this many proposals out in order to get assigned customer. It should be predictable because you can predict your outreach activities. You should also be able to predict your outreach results. You said this much outreach results in this much in sales.
George Haikal: That's what product market fit looks like.
George Haikal: Let's dig into value a little bit. What is customer value when it comes to business, to business values. Well.
George Haikal: I don't care. How does your startup create value? Let's start with you. I don't want to pick on you, but I just want to hear.
George Haikal: how do you create value, reduce time, reduce cost.
George Haikal: But doing what
George Haikal: don't want me to tell you what we do. But we do. Yeah, we build custom production teams for brands.
George Haikal: Amazing. Your content budget is a hundred grand. We can do the same job for 50 K,
George Haikal: amazing, fantastic. What do you guys? What about you guys, we make it possible for you to make data driven decisions
George Haikal: to do what you can essentially make your your own business way more cost effective.
George Haikal: And what kind of what kind of bad decisions do you avoid using your solution?
George Haikal: Investment decisions? Yeah, could be product pricing decisions. Okay, those are really different. Right? Like, let's pick one of those we help retail products price themselves more effectively so they can improve their margins.
George Haikal: I want you guys to describe this value in this kind of specific terms, you should have a customer like a specific kind of customer. This is who this is for. And here is what we do for them. Very, very specific.
George Haikal: Now, I believe there's only 4 ways you guys have already went through all of them.
George Haikal: There's 4 ways companies create value. This is from Yc, we stole it from one of their videos.
George Haikal: This is the form
George Haikal: your business can do one of 4 of these things to other businesses. You can help them make more money. You can help them save more money. You can help them move fast, or you can help them reduce risk. You guys said like, Hey, we avoid bad decisions like you made a risk. You have a risk of like making a bad pricing decision. Great. We reduce that risk. That risk cost you X. Last year. You no longer have to worry about that.
George Haikal: You can move fast. Your production was supposed to take you 3 months. Okay, I can get it done in one same outcome cost exactly the same. But it's faster. That's better.
George Haikal: save more money awesome. We were supposed to spend. X. Now you spend y great. That delta is what I delivered to you, and I want to be paid z for it. If Y is greater than Z. They're going to pay
George Haikal: the best. I help you make more money.
George Haikal: Your team will sell more of your products. We're gonna deliver 4 million dollars of extra revenue for your 20 million dollar e-commerce business, and we're only charging a hundred $1,000 to do it. You're welcome
George Haikal: like everything that you do is this one through 4. And, by the way, in this order
George Haikal: it's the best to help people make more money like if you can say, Hey, my content costs more, it's slower, but guess what? It doubles the results because it's that good.
George Haikal: and I will prove it to you. I'll match your budget, and if I hit your revenue goals you pay me X. Whatever it is. You're that confident. If you can promise to sell a customer purse strings open up.
George Haikal: We live in a capitalist system.
George Haikal: The basic premise is, if you help people make more money, they will come and find you. Everybody's trying to make more money like you're not going to have a demand problem. If you can confidently say my solution helps me make more money, and, like you should be religiously looking for that. That's how I basically get to like products that pay for themselves. Well, that means they're making money. If you pay for yourself in the 1st 3 months. You're net green for the last next 9 months, right? I mean over the course of a year. That's a phenomenal place to find yourself.
George Haikal: Any startup can be described in one of these 4 ways. If you're starting businesses like people to argue, Netflix, you think that on Netflix I pay 99 a month. You think of the customer? The movie studios are the customer, like actors? Are the customer like Netflix is a b 2 b business. They're a giant production studio. They make more money. They happen to have you as an audience great, that increases their eyeballs and the value. But ultimately, they invest X in producing shows. They make y from those shows. That's the business like
George Haikal: any startup can be described in this way. And I actually challenge. You guys like, really force yourself. My startup. X
George Haikal: helps you make more money by doing this like that should be the lexicon in which you describe your company's activities. That's how you unlock value for other businesses.
George Haikal: You're on the same side of the table. Remember what I said about b 2 b sales like. Imagine I'm selling a product to clients as you.
George Haikal: I'm not trying to convince you of anything. Hey? Look.
George Haikal: you spend 100,000 here. You don't have to. I can do the same for 40. Don't you want to do it like that's kind of like I'm on the same side of the table as you means that you are advocating for the company to make a better decision like, Hey, I can use this outcome for you in one of these 4 ways. That's what people hear. That's what their progress is described. As
George Haikal: we don't have to do this. Now, I want to kind of get through this part. So I'm respectful for your availability this evening.
George Haikal: Really challenge yourself. My company does one of these 4 things for this customer by doing this.
George Haikal: If you can't say that there's a good chance that your product is not as valuable as you think. It is like you're describing what your startup is made out of you're describing the color of a thing you're describing. We use blockchain. We use this whatever like nobody cares, nobody cares about your features. They care about the waterfall. That's how you describe the waterfall.
George Haikal: make money, save money, move fast, reduce risk. There is no 5 and 6 for businesses. Every sort of value can be described in one of these 4 ways.
George Haikal: Now, here's the truth.
George Haikal: I've never seen this happen.
George Haikal: I've been doing startup for 20 years now. I've never seen somebody go out of business because they were like, oh, this is too valuable
George Haikal: like. It's too good.
George Haikal: The more you do it the better it is for your startup. You'll charge more. You'll all the investors will invest more. You'll be acquired at a higher price, deliver as much money, as much value as humanly possible like, climb up that ladder.
George Haikal: Now, creating value isn't enough. We talked about this in the 1st part, and the second part. You got to be profitable, and you've got to be predictable. The way you do this is by combining all these activities. Right? You control your costs religiously, and then you control your funnel activities. What outreach leads to? What results?
George Haikal: If you do those 2 things? That means you're fundable.
George Haikal: This is the magic of fundraising. You sit down with an investor and say, Hey, investor, I know you don't know shit about shit about data analysis. I know you don't know shit about shit about movie production. But you know what I know you know about is making money.
George Haikal: I have a machine that prints money. If I spend a dollar I make $1.7. Here's how I do this for the customer. That means this many sales activities. Whatever I have built a money printer.
George Haikal: do you want to invest in this money printer.
George Haikal: This is a fundraising store. This is a fundable company. This means that it can spend money to make money
George Haikal: to an investor that's music to their ears. That's the kind of stuff they take back to their partners and say, Hey, partners! I found this jam. They got this insane thing. They spend a dollar, they make $2, and here's how they do it. We should invest.
George Haikal: You can aggressively spend to make more money. Nobody wants to invest in a company for them to fund an R&D science project. We're not here funding kids shows we're here to make boatloads of money like. If an investor tells you like I'm investing to change the world, they're lying to you. That's marketing bullshit. The lps certainly don't give a shit about them changing the world that's branding, that's marketing that puts them on the map. Blah! Blah! All of that, you know. They all care about irr internal rate of return. How did your fund perform?
George Haikal: That's the math, the math is. I gave you a dollar. I want more money in return, a business that's predictably generating more revenue than the revenue it consumes, is going to be a more valuable company down the road.
George Haikal: And the way you do this is by creating this. These little feedback loops
George Haikal: you build a money printer, money printers are phenomenal companies to invest in.
George Haikal: And, by the way, the best investor is your customer.
George Haikal: I've been using the dollars that I've been collecting from my customers to build my products. It's the best kind of investment they take 0 equity. They actually give me phenomenal feedback. They give me customer success stories because they ultimately use a product that I built for them. That dollar is worth more than my investors. Dollar.
George Haikal: Remember this, your customers are investing in you as well, and they're the best kind of an investor.
George Haikal: So how do we reach product market fit? How do we create this insane amount of value for our customers?
George Haikal: What order of operations should we take in our startup?
George Haikal: The analogy is this, you're building a tower.
George Haikal: This tower has 4 floors. It's called the product market fit tower.
George Haikal: If you reach Level 4, you have product market fit.
George Haikal: I'm gonna tell you what the levels are. There are 4 levels and nuance. Here is this.
George Haikal: every floor is built with 2 things.
George Haikal: You're gonna have scaffolding.
George Haikal: And you're gonna have concrete, like scaffolding, is the outline of a floor like, Hey, we have like
George Haikal: wood. That shows you where the window goes, where the door goes. It kind of sort of looks like a floor. But it's not really robust.
George Haikal: It's just kind of like an outline that's scaffolding
George Haikal: concrete is. We poured concrete around the sides. Now it's like sturdy walls. Hold up. Everything is great.
George Haikal: Scaffolding is anecdotal evidence
George Haikal: in the in terms of progress in your startup, if you have scaffolding, we have, like a lot of people sign up for a wait list. Great scaffolding, you know. What's better. People prepaid for access. That's concrete like there's anecdotal evidence. And there's statistical evidence. Statistical evidence is predictable. We know that if we do A, B and C with our customers in the 1st 30 days they deliver more value out of it. They become customers for life. We can predict that
George Haikal: Uber had this thing.
George Haikal: If you took 2 rides with Uber free or paid. You were a customer for life.
George Haikal: What an insane Stat, when they prove this statistically! If people take 2 rides with our cars, they're a customer for life. They never turn
George Haikal: infinite fundable company.
George Haikal: Scaffolding is anecdotal, concrete statistical evidence.
George Haikal: Scaffolding can get you far.
George Haikal: Each one of these floors is gonna be built with scaffold. And we're gonna talk about what those floors are. There's sales.
George Haikal: customer success, engineering, customer success and reputable sales.
George Haikal: You can do a lot with just scaffolding. And of course, as a founder myself, I know it's really tempting to just build a thing with scaffolding and go fast. Go to the south floor.
George Haikal: The problem is.
George Haikal: the concrete on a lower floor makes the scaffolding way easier on the floor above it. This is the secret.
George Haikal: It's so difficult because you can get phantom product market fit. You can sort of get kind of sort of sales and be like, Oh, my God, I got product market fit. But it's not robust, it's not on a foundation. Go ahead. You had a question. Sorry I didn't mean to interject, but I think the video got lost. So the people that were on it can't get on it.
George Haikal: Oh, the link expires. I'm gonna keep going.
George Haikal: Okay, go ahead.
George Haikal: What's an example of Phantom? Well, I think I my 1st startup.
George Haikal: we thought we had a product. We're gonna talk about that in detail like live this. It's a very easy thing for people to claim to say, I got product.
George Haikal: I got a million sales like people will like. People will pick like an arbitrary number. It's like an indication of like, I've got a million sales. They have numbers.
George Haikal: Well, you can't have a number and not have product market fit. They don't have the engine. They don't have the engine running. You haven't. You haven't built the machine that generates that guess. And and the game that a lot of founders play, unfortunately.
George Haikal: is faking the phone. They use these kind of weird, like convenient numbers and metrics or temporary progress to represent that when it's not really and investors already trained to like suss that out
George Haikal: alright. Ready share. Go back. Yeah, we're ready.
George Haikal: Okay, you need concrete and all level 4 levels to find product market fit. You work on all levels. I know if you work on every different function in the business, you work on all these problems concurrently, but
George Haikal: if you want to lay down concrete for a particular problem. If you want to over invest in your engineering, you better damn believe you have concrete on the floor below it, and we're going to get specific examples on what that looks like. But the broader point is this, if you have concrete on all 4 floors, your farm product market fit, and I believe you should be building these things in that order. Scaffolding, concrete scaffolding, concrete scaffolding, concrete scaffolding, concrete
George Haikal: if you're trying to overbuild a sales team without having a robust product. You're gonna have a shit of unhappy customers. That is what ends up happening. People end up solving the incorrect problems in their company, they sold them out of order.
George Haikal: And, by the way, when you're telling a story to a fundraising environment, you can say like, Hey, we got concrete on floors, one and 2, and we're investing in concrete on floor 3 about sales. We gotta get really, this dialed in and investor will respect that kind of like strategic roadmap thinking like, okay, I get it. I get. Why, you're not hiring sales reps right now I get. Why, you're not spending my digital ad spend. You don't have enough customers totally makes sense, you know. Of course, invest in marketing. We'd have examples of customer stories. Right? Right? Yeah. Great. Let's invest in making that happen first.st
George Haikal: Okay, here's the 1st score. You gotta have a vision.
George Haikal: What that to me looks like is this sentence, this is gonna work, you should say, Hey.
George Haikal: this will work.
George Haikal: Anecdotal evidence on this will work. Looks like this.
George Haikal: The team has an experience.
George Haikal: but they're motivating. They're really smart, but they don't have experience. They don't have the context like, like, imagine you're building a business, and you've worked in that industry for the past 20 years
George Haikal: like, you know everybody there is to know. That's better. Right?
George Haikal: You don't need to have it. You can be motivated to go get those connections. That's what that looks like inexperience but motivated the high energy. You walk through walls. There are examples of similar products from parallel markets like, Hey, we have this marketplace for pallets. There's a marketplace for power machines like just the construction tools. We can do the same for pallets like you can draw these like kind of like parallels.
George Haikal: This has the potential to be a massive market. It's not a big market yet, but it has the potential to be a massive market. You can say, like, Hey, look, there are analogies in here that this is growing at this rate. And there's a list of target customers. I told you guys that you need a list. First, st you could just say that, okay, these are the target customers. These are the car dealerships that want more sales. And we've identified them in a list. These are all good things. You should have all of these things right at the very least. Scaffolding, that's what got you here.
George Haikal: Here's what concrete looks like at that 1st level you haven't built shit yet.
George Haikal: Team has started and exited multiple companies in the space that we're building. Now, like, if I build 3 healthcare companies and I'm building number 4, I know what the fuck I'm doing.
George Haikal: You. You have a works like prototype with a handful of customers like it works shitty, but it already the shitty version has customers. The shitty version has a wait list.
George Haikal: There's an existing multi 1 billion dollar annual spend category like
George Haikal: like there, there is a spend category to eliminate abandoned carts. People have pre approved to spend already. It's so much easier to go get that spent versus convince the customer that they need to not spend money on building AI agents. They've never spent money on that before.
George Haikal: You have to fit into existing annual spends. That's concrete. People already spent 4 billion dollars in power tools whatever like existing spend category
George Haikal: and team has direct access to a wait list of customers. Not only we have a list, there's a wait list these people have signed up for early access, because that's how dire this problem is.
George Haikal: you see how both of these things they still have 0 progress. They haven't read the code, they have the productism, what it needs to be.
George Haikal: This sounds a lot better than this golden.
George Haikal: What I'm saying is that, look, you're not. If you haven't accepted multiple companies, you're not gonna just end up in multiple companies. You're here now. Right you are who you are. What I'm saying is technology. Which one are you?
George Haikal: But are you entering into a space where you don't know why. Okay, you have a competitor who does
George Haikal: like which one are you? And, by the way, if you don't have this, I better hope you are going after an existing spend. You can choose to do that. You can fit what you have into an existing spend for something that has never existed before. Like there are decisions that implies of who you are. But there's also decisions on what you can go after, like you can say, hey? With this
George Haikal: you can go. Get a wait list, go get a wait list like you can. You can decide to do one or the other, and you can spend time and energy doing this, you can also join you. Who has that? Who has that experience.
George Haikal: like all these things, are decisions like all these things are things that you can like act upon, and one is better than the other.
George Haikal: And again, we're at the ground floor. We haven't done anything yet this is just our starting point. We have an idea on a napkin. But these 2 things aren't equal and you can find yourself. Are we concrete? Are we?
George Haikal: Second floor, we're gonna need a product gonna build something right for these people.
George Haikal: this works. That's how you that. That's that's basically what the center says this will work because this works.
George Haikal: but this works also has 2 2 sides to this scaffolding and concrete. Here's what scaffolding looks like oops.
George Haikal: limited capacity. It works on iphones, but on android like it kind of sort of works. It's budget.
George Haikal: It delivers what the label says like it increases whatever like, reduces abandoned carts, whatever the value of profit is, but it does it in a limited way. Yeah, it works at night and not during the day, like it needs this thing.
George Haikal: Product works with human effort. You might find yourself in this place like it works. But we're gonna like hit refresh by hand because we we haven't built a tech that automatically does. That
George Haikal: product needs millions to keep going like if you did, if you just implemented it and walked away, it would break in a month. You need to sort of like, come in and like, do stuff.
George Haikal: This is better that this will work. Of course it's progress. You have customers, and you're delivering a service to those customers. But you know what's better
George Haikal: product works across all edge cases. You know that a customer, if they're buying this from you, hey? I know it's gonna work. I don't need to know what your Crm. It's gonna work. We build integrations with. All. Crm, I don't even need to know. I'll figure that out during on board. It will work. I know it will work.
George Haikal: Product works automatically, like implemented done. No human effort is required. No fixing, no like, I gotta refresh my handle. This, whatever like the product will just do what it says automatically, tech power and product works with little to no bugs. You're always gonna have bugs. You're always trying to do something new. But is this exists like a known bug where you're like, Oh, like, every time we implement the salesforce, the whole thing is new. And we know we gotta retry like, you can basically have new bugs. Always new bugs are good
George Haikal: existing, but you always have to overcome no good.
George Haikal: and this is what scaffolding to concrete looks like. Now, you messenger. Already
George Haikal: we're investing in concrete and products.
George Haikal: But we only have, like a shitty wait list on the scaffolding side.
George Haikal: We're probably over investing here, like we probably actually picked the wrong product to build all this like concrete, even one floor above. If there's no concrete on the below bottom, the whole thing crumbles like that means that you should stop the development efforts, keep it at the scheduling level, get concrete on the floor below, get a bigger wait list, get find the existing spend category. Get closer to that predictable sales, get closer to that demand.
George Haikal: Concrete on the bottom floor makes it easy to concrete. Put core concrete on the floor above it. It's easier for you to justify the spend for a fancy engineer. Fancy design product, whatever it is. If you have customers begging on your door, saying, like, please, I need more of this thing like I'm on the waiting list. Can I get on the front
George Haikal: concrete on the floor floor below makes concrete on the floor about easier. Okay, here's part 4, 3.
George Haikal: Now we have a wait list. Now, we have a product to show that wait list. Okay, now, we have to have insanely happy customers.
George Haikal: There is a definition of insanely happy. Okay, they need to say, this works well.
George Haikal: here's what scaffolding and customer. Success looks like
George Haikal: customers are happy. Ish does sound familiar, but your customers are happy, but they're happy. Ish like
George Haikal: they don't. They can't avoid talking about it like they're not bragging in conferences about like, Oh, my God! We bought the solutions works amazing. They're very price sensitive. They're negotiating prices with you.
George Haikal: Maybe they don't see value in it.
George Haikal: But customers are leaving for competitors, or worse. They're turning back to doing nothing
George Haikal: like maybe they didn't have a solution before you. They were using spreadsheets that we're using back to the envelope map. Whatever it is, they're going back to doing nothing. This is a giant, red, alert
George Haikal: customers don't care as much if the product is taken away from them. Shut down the product for a day. See what happens. Are people riding?
George Haikal: If it is, that means you build something valuable. If you shut down the product and nobody notices. Is it really valuable?
George Haikal: We go back to the analogy before? If you have a product with shitty bugs all the time. It's real hard to get this right like if the product just breaks all the fucking time, it's really hard to get a customer to be happy. There's gonna be like, God damn it! Broke again like, fix it.
George Haikal: fix it
George Haikal: concrete on product. Makes customer success. A whole lot hat easier because the product delivers value to predictable rate. Here's what a great customer success looks like. Customers are bragging.
George Haikal: You don't have to ask them to talk about you. They're posting on Linkedin. They're saying, Oh, my God, we're using this thing is the best thing to slice worth. I love it. Customers don't care if the price doubles. If you're delivering 4 million dollars in revenue left, and you go from 10 KA year to 20 KA year. You care. Netflix doubled its price. Did you even notice.
George Haikal: or like 5 years ago? Netflix is half the price. It's double now. You don't even know Amazon Prime if it could double its price tomorrow. I'm using examples for consumers. But same thing applies to businesses. Amazon prime would double its price tomorrow. I seriously doubt that you're gonna lose one customer.
George Haikal: It's such an amazing product. They deliver such an insane amount of value. Okay, maybe they'll lose one customer hundreds of 1,000 customers. But this is the point. The point is, people are perceiving its value, not based on the price it's cost.
George Haikal: They're they're pricing it on the value it delivers.
George Haikal: Customers are leaving the competition because we tried doing XY and Z. With this competitor. We're not gonna go with you guys, you seem to be the best.
George Haikal: There's little to no churn, and if the product is taken away they riot.
George Haikal: This is critical. This is a really good sign of like getting really hungry customers. Facebook did this.
George Haikal: Facebook had a new seat like they. They deployed a new seat, and then they took it away.
George Haikal: People literally write it outside of the Facebook office. They were like, bring the newspaper like dude. It's a pro. It's like a social thing. That's how much they loved it.
George Haikal: You have to have this kind of prediction in your product like, if you turn this off, I'm screwed. I'm not gonna get my promotion.
George Haikal: Keep the floors like. If you have existing customers with existing product, get them to this level. You don't need new sales to do this. You can do this with existing set of customers.
George Haikal: Once you have all 3 concrete floors.
George Haikal: That's when I think you can invest in predictable sales everything I said earlier about predictable sales stems from having a sick ass product.
George Haikal: Now you need customers to build that, but they can be in your wait list. They can be in the 1st floor. They don't need to be in this floor.
George Haikal: This floor is this, this works so well. I want one, too. If you can get to the statements. Wow! I heard from so and so that it works amazing. I need one. Can you get me one
George Haikal: sales in the scaffolding level? You're gonna have sales at a scaffolding. I've already said this to you guys earlier. You're gonna be working on sales. But scaffolding level looks like this. Sales are unpredictable. It's going up, but it's unpredictable, like we don't know how many demos we need. We don't know how many trade shows we need in order to get the customer.
George Haikal: There's a parallel distribution, ie. The founder is selling the most. Maybe there's a few sales reps here and there, but they're not selling like as much as a sales founder is still leading sales. Scaffolding, level marketing spend is going towards brand awareness. That's the, you know, like I'd like to punch that to nothing, Burger, if I could like brand awareness means nothing to you, like people say you are winter on ads because we gotta have more brand awareness by that person.
George Haikal: Most revenue is coming from a small subset of customers, meaning that you have some like power customers that are paying you the most.
George Haikal: This is a map. This is scaffold. It's okay. If things are here.
George Haikal: If you're over investing in sales like hiring a giant amount of sales to pour concrete. This, better be true sales forecast a mathematical function like you should be able to say, this sales spot will generate this much in sales like this, aa plus a Bdr in this amount of time. They're gonna call this many people. They're gonna get this. Many demos and those kind of Demos are gonna turn to this much a lifetime value. If you can do that great hire way. Awesome
George Haikal: sales performance is a normal distribution with tight bands like you should know how much a sales rep should produce. You should know how much you can produce like there's like there's like a distribution number in here.
George Haikal: Sales leadership is in place, no longer selling the the company as a whole.
George Haikal: Marketing is profitable. With a clearly defined customer. Acquisition cost. We spend this much in trade, shows ads whatever. And we get this much customer acquisition. We have a price on buying a new customer, and then revenue is distributed across a diverse set of customers like almost like sales, becomes boring.
George Haikal: This is the moment where you Yolo, in sales, where you Yolo into marketing, spend where you all into hiring a huge sales team.
George Haikal: If you have a giant sales concrete investment on Floor 4 and her product sucks, your customers are unhappy.
George Haikal: The whole thing follows.
George Haikal: It's really hard to build a giant sales team and just as hard as it to build a really well working product.
George Haikal: But you have to do these things in order. You can't solve your sales problems. If your product breaks all the time, you can't solve your customer success problems for product race all the time. You can't get people to sign up for your wait list. If there's no existing happy customers to even talk about like each of these things like scaffolding on one floor makes it easy for you to lay down concrete on the floor below.
George Haikal: and you work on scaffolding
George Haikal: across all floors like you should, of course, like, do all the things in the startup. But don't pour the concrete. Don't spend aggressively to get things to be too reliable like. Just imagine this, nobody's on the wait list, and you're solving, for I gotta have the app to be concurrently usable by a thousand people at a given time. Think you have 2 customers. Why are we investing a thousand people concurrently like, why are we doing this? This is a invisible activity to the business you will have done it. It'll work perfectly. No one will know.
George Haikal: No, no, because you haven't moved the bottleneck. You haven't solved the problem. You solved our problem. That may or that may become a problem down the road. You gotta solve the problem at all times.
George Haikal: You're working all levels concrete on the floor below makes concrete on the floor above easier.
George Haikal: And again, this is a very investable story. You can go to an investor and say, I don't have a sales team yet, but guess what I have. I have 10 customers who would be delirious if I took the product away from them. I have 10 customers that I doubled the price on
George Haikal: nobody left. Now, I want to raise around to hire a sales team. Okay, I see you de-risk the business systematically. You create early demand. You build a product that works. Customers are happy as a result of it, not even more of them
George Haikal: all 4 of these you can raise money on like you can say, Hey, I have a giant. Wait list. I'm trying to raise the seed run so I can build the 1st version of the product whole lot easier to raise that round. If you have a killer, wait, list a whole lot easier if you're like an executive founder in that space. Previously, each of these floors make is a fundable stage in your business. But you need to be intentional about this, like I'm raising to do this.
George Haikal: You can't build a big tower with just scaffold, like at some point I got more concrete. Concrete is predictable. We said this earlier. That means that you have predictable results in your business that you're able to achieve.
George Haikal: You start with scaffolding and you work towards concrete in that order. Don't over mess in the top floor before you have concrete on the bottom floors.
George Haikal: I always like to end these things with a single question.
George Haikal: We talked about what is, gonna be your sales goal. What are gonna change in your spending habits?
George Haikal: Here's the question for this one.
George Haikal: What level do you want?
George Haikal: Wait on anyone.
George Haikal: If there's confusion amongst the team about what level you're wrong. That is the person to get a line on. Sit down, open up a bottle of wine.
George Haikal: whatever like, sit and have an honest conversation. What are we doing like? Do we have diligently happy customers? We don't. Why are we debating about where the next customer is gonna come from. Why are we doing this? Let's get more people in the wait list to use the product and get them to be a phenomenal outcome.
George Haikal: If we have solved that problem first.st Trust it's gonna be so much easier for us to get the sales afterwards, like no one's on the wait list. Why about we're messing and solving non existing engineering problems like no one signed up for it. Why are we trying to make it beautiful? If the shooting version hasn't solved. Yet why are we doing this?
George Haikal: This is a level of self honesty. I can't make this call for you. You have to be the ones who are making this assessment in your business. This is a conversation you literally had with me and your co-founder yesterday, just yesterday, just yesterday. So I just know how real and authentic this all is, because it's not like it changes after you've done it successfully. You have to still do it again. Whatever else you have to build. So yeah.
George Haikal: super weird. Thank you.
George Haikal: The takeaway is this don't solve a problem. There's a million problems solve the problem. And the problem is something that you know in your heart of hearts it should be something that you can debate with your co-found. It's a really good like 1,200 board meeting. What's the problem? What are we trying to? What are we trying to do? What floor are we trying to solve for here? And this is just basically a roadmap. There are no rules. You make your own rules in your startup. Every company is unique.
George Haikal: But I would argue that if you're trying to solve for customer success problems without anybody in your wait list. It's probably premature.
George Haikal: This is the kind of thinking this is the kind of discipline you have to get into, because ultimately an investor shouldn't be asking you for this. You should be in the position to tell your lord. Tell your investor. Tell Neil I'm sorry, Bro, we're not going to do outreach. We're trying to do this like there should be a logical reason why you're pursuing certain stuff over others.
George Haikal: and the level of honesty that this also requires is.
George Haikal: let's gonna be honest with you, ready to raise money
George Haikal: like it's really tempting to end this program. We're raising 2 million dollars
George Haikal: sounds great. Let's get fucking investor meetings. Awesome. Why, why, raising, what are you gonna do with it? Figure stuff out of shitty investor.
George Haikal: If you want tier one investors, they want to see strategy. They want to see a thoughtful plan.
George Haikal: You should not wait for your investor to tell you the plan.
George Haikal: You should be selling the plan to the investor, and the right investor will say the fuck out of your way for you to execute the plan. You're looking for the investor that respects your expertise, that will fund you with conviction because there's ultimately risk involved in any business.
George Haikal: But it should be a thoughtful approach, you should say, like, Hey, investor, invest in me if you believe in this roadmap. That is what I'm going to do with your money like that's the plan. If I get new evidence that gets me to deviate from it, I will adjust accordingly. But currently this is the roadmap we're on. Don't tell me why I'm not spending any money on advertising. Don't ask me why I don't have any sales reps. Don't ask me why I'm not investing in XY. And Z. This is the order in which I will invest in these things. This is an intentional way to build your company, and you will find once you sort of like, get into this discipline, hey? You don't need that much. Money
George Haikal: like sales are expensive, not that expensive. You have a predictable model like right? I mean, the thing pays for itself.
George Haikal: Let's get a sales rep like, after 3 months they pay for themselves. Now they're generating your money, and we'll have the next one. Great, awesome.
George Haikal: We need an engineering team. No, we don't like. We haven't gotten people to sign for the weightless. Oh, people have signed up for the weightless get. Let's get them to prepaid. How bad they want it.
George Haikal: Like, maybe the prepayment will fund the development efforts like, you'll realize that the things that look expensive aren't that expensive? They can be funded with customer demand. And that's what ultimately makes a better company like this is what out executing your competition looks like you do more with less, and you do it because you're doing it in an intentional manner.
George Haikal: The floor makes the previous floor easier, and you don't end up wasting money. Companies die because they waste resources. You have thousands of dollars in your disposal right now. You've already gotten the techstar's money. You have the money.
George Haikal: How are you going to invest this money? All the stuff we said about sales spending habits? It really comes down to this. It's ultimately about creating as much value as possible for your customers, but you have to do it with a predictable set of steps.
George Haikal: That's what I have for you guys. I will stay as long as you need me to to answer any of your questions, and I'll see you guys tomorrow at my store to see where all this shit came from. I have built some companies in the past that hard way and try to condense them into 3 and a half hours for you guys.
George Haikal: And this is stuff that I teach. I tell this is stuff that I live by. I hope that's something that really came through. Like, I'm not asking you guys to do anything that I am not doing myself like. Everything that I share with you guys, today is implemented in 2 48, and as a result, my company is performing the way it is right now, and I hope that some of this was useful for you guys.
George Haikal: Okay, I'll stop. Take questions. If you guys have. Thank you.
George Haikal: Hardest thing to learn.
George Haikal: Struggled across all these companies like the most time.
George Haikal: I feel like some of us have felt pain in different areas, but trying to avoid it and see if we can get without failing.
George Haikal: This is, we're gonna go into this in the foundry a little bit. But I'll tell you the hardest thing to learn
George Haikal: to me. The hardest thing to learn is to decouple my self worth from the performance of my company.
George Haikal: I am a founder, right I. My life's work is my company.
George Haikal: When that company does bad, I take. I take that personally.
George Haikal: It sucks like when I have a bad month. It sucks when an employee quit sucks when the product fails, sucks.
George Haikal: but that's a heavy burden to bear.
George Haikal: and you know I I think more that, like the more I do this.
George Haikal: the world doesn't care about my feelings. I need to make the best decisions, my tools, my brain, every problem solvable. I need to decouple my personal self worth for the performance of the company, so I can ultimately make the best decisions.
George Haikal: But, man, I'm 20 years in, and I'm still struggling with it like ultimately the work out of my hands is me. I see myself in it. I try to build these companies in my image, and like, when the company does well, I feel great like when the company says, Thank you, I feel awesome.
George Haikal: But the flip side of that is true as well. I'm going to fuck some shit up for a customer man like I can't sleep at night. It sucks. It's personal. And I think that's not so helpful. And I'm in the journey of learning that. Okay, I can decouple myself from this. Ultimately the company can perform better like it's ultimately a machine like the machine should work without how I feel about it.
George Haikal: Go ahead sharing. How did you arrive at that company?
George Haikal: Well, or up until the last quarter sales was a side activity for me.
George Haikal: as I'm like I'm helping fulfill customer commitments. But I'm basically not selling with, like 25% of my time
George Haikal: in the beginning of the quarter my co-founder was vision a little bit. It was like, man. We haven't had a new logo in a while, you know. He's kind of like doing this to me, and this happens with every startup he was like, he's he's CTO and CEO. He's like man. Last logo we had. It was like not like October. What's going on with sales. And I was like, Oh, Bro, you know, I see you.
George Haikal: I'll go sell like, all right. Here's my plan. Actually share that with you guys. It's sort of like you get an idea of, like, practically speaking, what that, what that looks like.
George Haikal: Let's go stop share. For a second.
George Haikal: I made a plan. I basically said, Okay, this is what I'm going to deliver in this in this quarter. It might not be all of this, but it will. This is this is the intention.
George Haikal: Q, 1, 2025 marketing initiatives. Let's share my screen. Boom.
George Haikal: All right.
George Haikal: This is the goal
George Haikal: I wanna send, like, I wanna make a hundred demos 100 instructor meetings throughout. Q. 1, 2025. Here's why I know this will work. This is where our customers came from.
George Haikal: and I will do like every good activities like I will do all my looms because this it works.
George Haikal: hey? Our customers are leading to referrals lately. So like, I'm just pointing this out as a red flag. But I'm getting more customers like, Get like we gotta get our customers happier. And I am going to do these outbound initiatives. I'm gonna do cold email for tech magazines. I'm gonna do guestless outreach schedule, 20 meetings. I did 30. I'm gonna be creating talks for, like Ct, cold email, Ctos for workshops. And all my ideas like these are all the things that I'm gonna do. And by the way I can do some. I can
George Haikal: use some helpful stuff, too, like you can help me like automate. This Kpi collection with tracking. That would be helpful. It would be really easy for me to have like an ad proposal generator like I. So I can get more of these proposals out. I made all of this like list like this is the content list. Blah, blah! This is like, how many pages is this like this is a week by week plan every week. I'm gonna do this.
George Haikal: We didn't do this. But this was my favorite. We're gonna do a Yc company speed run. So we're gonna like, rebuild Yc companies with our staff and just stop posting on Linkedin and be like, Hey, here's the code base for this Yc company. It's free. It's pretty.
George Haikal: So let's see. How many pages is that? That is yeah. 7 pages. This is all the shit I'm about to do for delivering sales in q. 2 q. 1.
George Haikal: I go ahead 30 min from this, my cold outbound. I did the same where I reach out to tell it. Alumni. I'm teaching this like one lecture or one classic business school alumni. From there I fucking body the outreach role. And I have like 5 goals in fucking signature phase. Right now they're like, all right, we're trying to get this thing done
George Haikal: while I'm doing that shit.
George Haikal: I turn around.
George Haikal: The customers are fucking, bombing like
George Haikal: created this outreach for this company like there's a clear rate. How many emails we send, how many opportunities we generate? That's down. There's a custom built for this like large companies paying us half a million dollars. It's supposed to be done in November. We're still working on. It's March. She's not done right. There's all this extra shit that they're asking for.
George Haikal: you know, dude, what am I doing? Why am I getting more sales like? Why, on my ass, while getting more sales, when all I see here are having shit. That's not working. Here's the here's the deal.
George Haikal: I am lethal in sales, but I need a fulfillment point. I can't be doing both.
George Haikal: I can't be fulfilling customers and selling at the same time. I do not have enough hours in a day, and, more importantly, I need to believe in what I'm selling. I need to say, like, Hey, this is, gonna be the fucking best thing to sliced bread. I see this shit not working. What's gonna happen like, I'm not saying this as the CEO. I'm saying this as like, we're fishing owners of this business. What a business you want to create a good business, has sales, but unhappy customers. I want to build a great business. Don't you want to build a great business with me?
George Haikal: And he turned around and was like, Bro, you're right. I'm gonna do XY, and Z. We got a certain level of like alignment on. So what I said, is like, Okay, great. I'm so glad that you have ownership over this. I'm still gonna fucking. Sell the shit out of these deals. I'm gonna put an implementation date of May 15, th that we can start by May 15.th
George Haikal: It's some people are. Gonna say, you know this because they want to start right away. That's okay. We're gonna lose some deals as a result. But I'm not advocating myself on the responsibility of generating new Logos for this business. I want the new sales, too. But let's not be may 15. We're still working on the shit, but we're still not talking about trying to like fulfill existing customer obligations.
George Haikal: and that was an honest heart to heart. I'm going to reiterate that message when we're in person together next week. We're gonna be in the fucking den together in Chicago. But it's gonna be like a hard time. It's like, Hey, what are we trying to do in this business? We're
George Haikal: we're stuck on level 3 that you're asking to do. Level 4. No, let's not do this. It's not like I don't want to do it. It's the wrong thing to do like. I shouldn't be spending time getting more Logos.
George Haikal: That was the conversation. Thanks. Thanks so much for sharing. He also has a new skill, which is
George Haikal: when he has something to overcome or an issue to resolve that he is wrestling with. In my observation he finds the right person
George Haikal: to talk it out with, or to bounce it off of, or multiple people
George Haikal: he like. I feel like I work for me. To a certain extent he has these people that he will talk to about. He knows intuitively who to engage to make sure he's handling it the right way, because he knows himself enough to know that in the beginning, when he has the 1st reaction he'll be pissed. He takes it personally, he's frustrated. He's flustered. He's got to go lift weights. He's got to work out. He's got to eat right, and then he's got to think
George Haikal: and then talk to the right people and then make a decision and have the conversation. And, by the way, this is a particularly painful part of this, and this is where I have to realize my like. I'm an experience
George Haikal: you want to call him? I called my room Monday this Monday, like 2 days ago.
George Haikal: We're talking about like, Hey, man, like we fucked stuff with this customer like we have 0 replies last week because we like messed up the company name and email the way this AI just generates like a Shakespearean bomb fucking email and one of the variables the company name, and like we fucked up the lead list. So the company name is like the wrong company. It's like elementary school, there still happens. I'm on your asses about like you should gotta be right. It happens all the time. It's a startup.
George Haikal: I'm telling him, man. We can't be having this
George Haikal: this motherfucker. I'm on the phone, too. So like in person, I gotta tell you like this past month you've been selling so like it's on my shoulders to do all this like fulfillment. I'm like shorthanded and like I need more headcount to do this business selling, and like I gotta do all the shit, whatever I'm like.
George Haikal: I got my shit, too. It's like this turned into a thing I had to really calm myself down to like not fucking snap back at him. This is how shit escalates. So I was like, you know what you just let it all. I see how you're feeling. It's frustrating. Yeah, I'm frustrated, too, you know. I'm sorry that it was on your shoulders like, let's talk about it. But the next day I was like, yo, the shit that you were bitching about. That's your job.
George Haikal: It's not your. If it's not your job. We gotta hire 3rd Co founder. So it's it's someone's job, because it ain't my fucking job like I can't be selling and fulfilling like that is not a winning combo. It takes a certain amount of outreach, and I have the receipts for it. I, fucking, delivered the sales
George Haikal: like the like. The problem is like sales. The problem is fulfilling itself.
George Haikal: Anyways, I'm sharing what I mean. But this is the play by play. Guys like anything else that we can talk to. Go ahead.
George Haikal: We're talking about how we like manage that expectations for your client, but also have some flexibility there. It's like things. Take quite some cases. If we haven't done.
George Haikal: I think you should hold yourself accountable for aggressive goals. But the second, you know that you're not going to hit that goal you can transfer with your customer. And so like, hey? I know we said we would do this in 3 months or month 2. It ain't gonna happen by month 3 that we know it now, because there was an unknown bit of data that we had to overcome. This thing that we thought was gonna take them like a week. It takes longer than a week. Sometimes those errors are customer want, like the customer will be like we'll give. We're gonna give you Api access to our back end in a week, and it takes 8 weeks.
George Haikal: But what am I supposed to do like?
George Haikal: But you should tell your customer like, Hey, customer, let's say the thing that I thought was gonna take away is 8 weeks is later. As a result, people aren't upset. If you're transparent.
George Haikal: people are upset. If they find out that you're fucking up, and they tell you about it. So using, like nice little like philosophy of like handling customer expectations.
George Haikal: Imagine you're in a hotel, and the A/C. Is health sucks. Hot summer bed going wild.
George Haikal: Somebody fix the A/C sucks. Anybody comment they're like, oh, we're not really sure what you're talking about. Our A/C is working fine, like what the fuck A/C down man, I'm telling you right now, you're basically telling the customer that telling the vendor there's a problem. They're not gonna acknowledge you.
George Haikal: Now compare that with the day before you're checking in
George Haikal: mister. We're really sorry A/C in your room is down. We're so so we tried to upgrade you. We couldn't like anything in our power. We couldn't. We're gonna have ice cream ready for you when you arrive. We're gonna serve it to you. I really wish there was something else we could do for you. By the way, we're gonna give you a complimentary pass this. This stays on us.
George Haikal: Thank you. No problem.
George Haikal: People are upset
George Haikal: if they find out the problem and not doing shit about it. If you proactively communicated, hey, this is wrong. We acknowledge that it's wrong, and we're really sorry about it. Here's what we're doing to make it right. No problem. Thanks. That's good customer service.
George Haikal: There's gonna be problems everywhere. You should be communicated that in advance, and holding yourself accountable to the outcomes, don't charge extra for the extra extra month. Just says, Okay, I know I signed up for an outcome. I'm gonna give that to you. For free
George Haikal: people are fine. With this. They understand that things are gonna go wrong.
George Haikal: And there's a general version of this which is in.
George Haikal: If you all have the ability, and you all do.
George Haikal: to put yourself into the shoes of whatever customer you're trying to serve, and ask yourself, how would you want to be treated if you were them? In that case.
George Haikal: like, when this happened, this email, fuck up happened. The customer didn't know about it. We found out about it beforehand. I was like that immediately. Do it right up all transparent like, Hey, we fucked this up. This is how it happened. We're really sorry. This is what we're doing to make it right. There's a response. No problem. Let me know when it's fixed.
George Haikal: It would have been way better if he was forwarding us emails of like, hey guys like this email is kind of got the fucking wrong company. Name what the fuck is going on here like. That's way like. That's way. More pressure.
George Haikal: Any other next question, any other questions. Go ahead.
George Haikal: It's a question about buyers on the buyers, and one of the things that I've been trying to do is get higher up people. But that's not something that you mentioned like into finding the right buyers. So I'm interested into knowing
George Haikal: good buyers get promoted.
George Haikal: If you're looking for a buyer, you're gonna have them people. They typically have budgets, they have spending, spending flexibility. And they have clear Kpis that they're using the rest of business as an instrument of like a head of sales has a revenue. Goal is a goal as well. But the head of sales has, like for the for the company.
George Haikal: I mean, as you start asking more and more questions, you're gonna get higher and higher stakeholders in the organization. But what I wanted you guys to steer away from is that that should be driven by the decision you're trying to get the company to make. Not just like I gotta talk to your boss.
George Haikal: That's not really a lot of fun, Vibe, for you to talk to the individual person who, typically, by the way, is the person who's gonna end up using your products like you can't sort of say, like, Hey sales? Rep, I'm gonna solve this problem for you. Intro to me to your Vp of sales and then fuck off.
George Haikal: That person is still the stakeholder. So instead, what we need to do is ask you questions and then evangelize the solution in these like higher ups, but never sort of do this thing where I'm just trying to climb a social ladder. And I'm trying to get to the CEO.
George Haikal: What I'm saying is, instead of going through the reps, you go directly to the
George Haikal: yeah. But it shows everyone else going
George Haikal: ideally. You only outreach to executives. What I'm saying is that it might not be realistic for you people not gonna be taking your calls. Everyone else is trying to get a hold of these executives.
George Haikal: But when you're trying to sell to businesses anywhere in the spot.
George Haikal: if you're solving a real problem, that person will insure you the person that's that's necessarily relevant for you. But you don't. Necessarily. You don't need to have the executive introduction. That's not a requirement. It's better.
George Haikal: And because you have, like an amazing Linkedin TV show, like your phenomenal content. All these video marketing people are following your content. They'll take the call with you a phenomenal strategy. By the way new content. Have your customers follow you in terms of the real value you have. They'll respond to your next a couple of times. No problem awesome. You got that fantastic?
George Haikal: They just might not be willing to do that. And I want to sort of like, I'm not saying you're done if you don't have us. Well, Alex, you asked a similar question last week about investment?
George Haikal: Right? It was a very similar kind of way of thinking, and I think it tracks a little bit, not one to one. But it's the same spirit of not trying to jump to the Gp. At the phone
George Haikal: right? And you need to treat the analysts with respect, because every now and then you don't know what they're gonna say upstream about how you handle that or how you treated them. So even if you do interact with someone at a lower level, make sure you treat them with respect, and that you're not immediately trying to skip the lines of the person. That's the decision maker.
George Haikal: Yeah, I know, I know. But I'm just saying there's a similar way to think about it. Find a good buyer. That's the point. Here. Find a good buyer and a good buyer can walk you through. How they buy stuff investor can walk you through. Here's how we invest in companies. Here's the decision process. We have an Lp meeting. Get the Gp sign off, get whatever the fuck like. They will walk you through the process, and you can convert someone into a champion, both in the b 2 b sales context and in the investment context.
George Haikal: those things are parallel.
George Haikal: What else can I answer for? You guys?
George Haikal: Go ahead. Do you have Mentees?
George Haikal: I don't have many. All I do is my startup. I have friends.
George Haikal: I have friends that I help because my friends help me, too. Let's be friends like I don't think we need to get in this like I used to do this where I would join board. I would like to have, like former Mentor Mentee relationships. I don't do that no more. I teach my class at Northwestern. My students are my mentees for that quarter. Great! That's a formal relationship. Everyone else here's my number. Hit me up anytime. If I can be helpful. Of course I'll help you out if I can. I'll be like I'm busy. I gotta start up to run, too.
George Haikal: like what I found out is that you have to be all in on your start, and I was like I was diluting myself with like helping like my like so many like mentors and mentees whatever. I wasn't paying attention to my own company, so I made it back to decision. I'm old, my company. I don't have board seats, other side investments or anything like this. Everything for 2, 48. But yeah, I'm here with 2, and I enjoy helping my friends. I'll give you a call over the weekend like if I can get around, and if I don't I'll be like, Hey, I'm sorry I got time right now, but good luck
George Haikal: things on that one. He made a ridiculous exception for this day, just to be clear, we don't do this. He doesn't do this anymore. He used to do this, and that was a part of his understanding of like. Can't be any architecture for that, that's 1. And then 2. I would say, like.
George Haikal: I've seen you like not break up with companies, but like.
George Haikal: I guess, what I would love to activate from you right now for them to hear is the success pattern of the companies that you still are happy to help. That's easy. If you want a good mentors, be good mentees
George Haikal: like, if you took away something from this conversation, and you implemented it, and you can get with a month later. Say, hey, we're just gonna tell you, man, fucking bottle workshop we got spent in half. We're doing fucking outreach now. Our CEO isn't doing shit now they're doing outreach. Now. They're setting up Demos text.
George Haikal: I'm way more fucking likely to take a call. So be a good mentee like, ultimately a mentor mentee relationship is there's some advice you take the advice or you don't, either. In case you say thank you. You should acknowledge it, and you know, like put it to work. The greatest joy for me is when somebody says what you said works. That's the best you know. Go ahead.
George Haikal: So when I hear you about your business, your current business, you've made over a million dollar in the in the sales in the past 18 months, 18 months.
George Haikal: and there are some cracks in the in the fulfillment aspect.
George Haikal: I'm thinking. Whoa, the what? Why, how about kind of trying to.
George Haikal: Maybe you've pushed to the limits your model of of kind of being super savvy, etcetera. And and
George Haikal: you should get about.
George Haikal: Consider hiring a bit more, and I understand you've done that a little bit kind of how do you reevaluate your way of thinking in the face of kind of
George Haikal: things that are also strategic, both at the same time. 1st of all, zoom by the financial model. Okay, what are our chips like? Like, I'm going to invest as in like, I'm going to spend resources. So I were able to help fulfill some of these things. What am I playing with? What's my cash runway. If I make $100,000 in the next month, what do I run runway? My current monthly spend much runway? Do I have? What am I playing with
George Haikal: like? That? Is a math number? Right? I can say, this is my sales forecast. It's somewhat robust now, but if I assume 0 sales like worst case scenario. Don't put any more sales by make this investment today to fulfill and make these customers happy. What runway do I have?
George Haikal: That's a math number, we should know the answer to that number. So it starts with the financial model and having a tight control over a cash forecast. That's why that monthly projected spend actual spend stuff really matters like critical.
George Haikal: The other thing is tactical in the sense that okay, the expertise that we're gonna bring over? Are we just throwing people at this problem, or is actually gonna solve a particular like customer need like, where is the problem coming from?
George Haikal: Like, is it just a process that we should update? Is it just so we should have somebody who basically get paid like 20 bucks an hour. But all they do is like, review everything once, and that's like a hundred dollars a month type of thing like where we just like hire somebody for 5 h like, what's the actual solution? Let's debate it and make sure it solves the problem like you should be challenged in a way that is like, Hey, I want to spend twice for the same thing like
George Haikal: what is going to be our measurements, that if we do the spend, what's gonna be the output that we should look for. To say that was a wise investment, because the problem went away. The customer's happy, and so on and so forth.
George Haikal: It should be defined outcomes that we're buying with this investment that we're making. That's part of the goal next week. So I told my co-founder, continuing the same conversation. Hey, man, I need you to put together a plan to say like, I don't want to spend $20,000 to fix these problems. I'm not expecting to do it with our current headcount. Fine. You can hire extra hands for the next 2 months. 3 months, maybe it looks like a full time employee, whatever?
George Haikal: Why, why, why is that gonna fix the problem? And how do we know that it's but gonna fix the problem so we can also do the finger and expand if it's not actually fulfilling the goal
George Haikal: because both of us are aligned. Both of us align that these things should be resolved. That was the main thing that got taken away from yesterday's conversation. All I'm looking for is ownership, like I understand it's gonna take work and effort to fix these problems like I get it. But it needs to be owned by somebody saying like, Hey.
George Haikal: just like, I'm saying, I'm gonna deliver sales. I need you to say I'm gonna solve these problems and not bitch about it in the process. I mean, it's fine to like, complain every once in a while. But like, do your job, man like what like? What else are we talking about here? And with love and grace? I'm not delivering my profile. I'm just saying like there's a division of like responsibilities. Somebody's gonna own this. And great whatever the strategy is, can we afford it? Is it gonna actually solve a problem? That's how we decide these things.
George Haikal: I think we'll go to you, and then we'll go to you. And then, with more applications, you
George Haikal: lawyers, car buying love your question.
George Haikal: You look at the top. Tomorrow we do a quick lightning round of them, explaining their businesses in a minute. I already did my homework. I know all your businesses. I went through all your websites. Some are better than others. I have opinions that I can share. But I mean, it's it's easier if you have a specific thing that you want me to comment. You want me to comment on your copy and your website. You want me to comment on your go to market. That's the whole problem solving here.
George Haikal: I guess I just love the way that you think about the business. And you've talked about partner examples a lot. So I imagine you probably have thought about my industry before you've met other people. I love that, too, for me to be effective. It has to 1st come from you around like, okay, what what floor are we on? Are we solving a sales problem? Because I have plenty of opportunity, like ideas on how I can think you can contact car dealerships.
George Haikal: I also have plenty of ideas on how I think you can build a reliable agent application which one you want to solve for so it comes from an honest acknowledgement of like, what is the problem? Because I can comment on 20 problems in the business from looking from the outside actually matters, this is not the problem. You're the one who's supposed to decide. This is the problem. So one thing I am doing for the 1st time ever in this class, for you all given the timing and and Merit's graciousness
George Haikal: is, I'm actually going to have you all complete the Tmf. Tower assessment.
George Haikal: So you're gonna tell me I'm gonna work with you and my team and our experts to tell you where we think you stand relative to where you think you stand.
George Haikal: And then, based on that, that gives you something to talk to someone that you know.
George Haikal: So yeah, you know, we're trying to lay concrete for the product to do. X. Okay, like, we're way more effective if I'm trying to like share my opinions. But like, I'm always going to bias from the positive. Right? I'm always going to be biased like, keep going. Really hard work. So like, that's not necessarily like, that's a applaud like, okay, but it's not progress. You know, progress is like, we have this problem, how do we solve this problem?
George Haikal: Let's see about what? What didn't? Yeah, how did you go about putting like an effective
George Haikal: going list? And how did you pair that with product in our case? For like 2, 48. It simply was pushing out the implement, go live date.
George Haikal: like, we would basically talk to people about like, Hey, like, what are you trying to build? What's the funnel trying to optimize? We have 100 inbound leads. They turn into like 10 Demos a month trying to make that 20. Okay? Great. What's gonna be the approach. We're gonna build an AI agent that responds to everybody who signs up for a demo qualifies them further schedule the call faster. Blah blah, whatever. Okay? Great. It's gonna take us 60 days to build this for you, for your custom, environment integrations, whatever. We can only start in this case. Are you good with that
George Haikal: like, that's what to us. A wait list looks like I did the contract. But I'm gonna start later in that. In our case, we sell to b 2 b businesses we don't have like a weightless of a hundred companies like at any given time. We've got 2 or 3 companies, and that became like a really good animal for me to go to the existing like
George Haikal: the to the engineering team and say, like, Hey, engineering team, I had this customer a lot. Can we stop by the state like, I'm not signing the contract yet. I'm only gonna sign it. If you guys are okay with that. That means A, B and C got to be done. You guys good with getting it done. Yes, we're good with getting it done. Awesome. Okay, we're aligned.
George Haikal: Push, push on, getting customers out so we can start the next stage like, let that be the driver of progress in the in the business can take forever. It's too slow. It's hard to desktop these things break. You always want to make it a little bit better. There's gotta be like these dead like deadlines drive progress. I really believe in that. But it's gonna be a real deadline. It can't be demo Day coming up. I hate to say that's not a good deadline like it's an arbitrary date you happen to be here today. It's not a customer deadline like our customers signed up for us to go live in this day. That's a real deadline, you know.
George Haikal: obviously, is an important deadline, like, I'm not just shitting over it. I'm just saying like it's not as important as a customer telling me something over like you're gonna stop like you got the next 10 years. Yeah, go ahead. Is there any way we can get access to your that marketing.
George Haikal: everything I shared with you guys today I'll share. I'll share all my decks. I'll share all the materials we have a friendda. Okay, friendly. Don't share my link. This is like actual stuff in there, like actual materials about. But don't let me catch you folks, and that should on Linkedin or Twitter, or something like that.
George Haikal: But I'll share everything with you guys and you can see how like I work as an operator like this is stuff I share with you guys again, like, I tried to use day to day stuff. This is like this quarter's marketing plan, like
George Haikal: when I say, set goals of outreach, whatever it is. That is what I'm doing. That's the real stuff.
George Haikal: Yeah, sorry we have. You were. I mean, we are. We're staffing, anyway. So
George Haikal: the specific one for has potential to be massive market compared to concrete. If this is an existing multi 1 billion dollar annual spend. The way that we see it is that we could, we could say that one script in is technically our.
George Haikal: you know, multi 1 billion dollar annual spend market. But then there's also something to be said about the potential to be a massive market. For like a
George Haikal: a version of that that is growing and so we're trying. I'm curious, like, for example, an example is like, you know, stripe right when Stripe started the amount of spend online as a payment processor was like, maybe 5 billion. But by now and and now it's that like 120 billion dollar market, it's massive, right? But when they started. It was, you know, relatively small, I guess. But it's still multi 1 billion dollar market. So how would you?
George Haikal: how do you frame this? So it's basically that market size. You should look at the size in which the percentage points of the market size is growing because it's ultimately like those are the best markets to invest in like a market is small today, but it's growing at like 50% year over year. It's going to be a ginormous market, and now it's time to get into it. By the time it's really big it's going to be too late. This is the general framework, the point of that comment is, the buyer indoor prospect do not give a shit about the Cagr of the fucking market. Spend growth.
George Haikal: They are caring about. What am I authorized to spend today?
George Haikal: And you better fit into that
George Haikal: if you don't fit into that, it's like it's just a harder battle. You're gonna come out of the innovation budget. You're gonna come out of the slush fund budget, whatever. These are not repeatable things. What I love is going to a customer and say, Hey, customer, I noticed you have a shopping cart store with this much in traffic.
George Haikal: Typically companies with this size of a shopify spend, have this much ad spend. Is that a fair assumption?
George Haikal: If the answer to that is a high light in the middle of yes, you just earn a ridiculous amount of routing points for that customer like there's an existing spend here. You're already spending XY. And ZI can make that work better for you. Are you open to hearing me out about this.
George Haikal: you tie it to existing line items in a budget. Businesses operate with a ledger. The ledger is what I spent what I'm going to spend. And, by the way, I hope these things match up, especially as companies get bigger and bigger, this is, get more and more static like. They don't change. The company knows how much they're going to spend over the course of the next year. If you're in a market like education. For example, you sell to schools. You are fucked. They know what they're going to spend a year out like the 2026 budget for school spend is already approved.
George Haikal: If you're trying to sell to a school.
George Haikal: you're going to start 2027 congrats. I'm proud of you guys. You get the idea like that is a that is not a dynamic allocation of capital that is locked and spent.
George Haikal: Now, if you're trying to like, shoulder your way into that, and then a school is already pre approved 40 k. In whatever laptop spend, and you can come in and say, I got a better laptop and replaces that line item, or you can only do it for 35 music to my fucking ears. You're ready.
George Haikal: But if you're trying to sort of create a new line item in that school's budget. You are in for a top awakening that is near dead, impossible.
George Haikal: And it's harder and harder the more archaic the industries are like hospitals similar. It's like selling to a government, but sometimes for profit businesses do this kind of like dynamic reallocation capital on a quarter by quarter basis, but public companies less. So right? They have an earnings target. They're going to hit that with what the budget that they put out. They said. We spent what we said we were going to spend. That makes the stock perform better.
George Haikal: So the bigger your customers are, the less flexible they're going to be with their spend. So ideally, you're picking a multi 1 billion annual spend category people already spend on.
George Haikal: But with your intuition with where you think things are going. Your research is massively growing already. Sell to them repeatable even more.
George Haikal: But just piggyback off that one to clarify.
George Haikal: You're taking that customer that has an existing line item, and you'd be telling them
George Haikal: I can do for less. You know better with that same amount of money back.
George Haikal: Yeah, that's the general line of thinking like
George Haikal: this is also the delta between like fundraising versus like selling to customers in a fundraising environment, a genetic AI spend is growing at X percent sounds really good to an investors like, Oh, we're getting there. What I'm saying is that your customer do not care your customers no conception about the broader trends of like financial markets, or whatever it is they care about their next month they care about their objective, they care about the job to be done. They care about that blocker of progress that's standing in the way of them, and their promotion
George Haikal: enable that with the money that they already have access to you're gonna make way more progress way faster. But you'll be a familiar item for them.
George Haikal: What you said at the beginning to- to
George Haikal: that you prefer, I guess, to aim for larger sales, sizes, and to go after the enterprise first, st
George Haikal: whereas I
George Haikal: I've heard the opposite often, I think for us the opposite may make more sense. In that, particularly in our target industry, it's very difficult to sell the enterprise for common concerns, like security demands sales, cycle length, etc, so could you clarify? I guess you're thinking
George Haikal: in any category. Just pick the bigger player like you might say, like, Hey, we have a cut off.
George Haikal: We're only gonna do hedge funds with a billion under management, right like or less, like our sweet spot is 500 million to a billion dollars, whatever it is, car dealerships this size car dealership, whatever you you make a bet.
George Haikal: But even within that spread there's variance like there's way bigger companies than smaller companies
George Haikal: target the bigger ones first, st like, solve the problem for the person who's gonna make the most money. So those 4 jobs, the 4 values like the bigger the company, the greater the share of value that they're gonna receive.
George Haikal: Target. Those first, st let's say, go after that ends like, don't sell the impossible customers. Obviously like there's gonna be a cut off where, like law firms buying software right? Like, maybe you don't go after law firms of like 50, like 500 people, or something like that. They have a requirement. You have to be hosted on on Prem can't be cloud, whatever there might be some existential reason why you get, but the only customers that you can go after they're all created equal. And the bigger ones will say Yes, faster.
George Haikal: presumably because their problem size is greater, like the the job that you're accomplishing for them is for the same effort. The tech is gonna work exactly the same. And yet the results are going to be put it automatically.
George Haikal: even if you do a shitty job like that's the thing like the company that's making 20 million dollars in like, whatever e-commerce revenue. Let's say you're promising to lift their sales by 10%. If you do half a good job, you raise it by 5%. That's a million fucking dollars like that's still a real lift in like sales. So aim for the bigger one like. And don't be afraid of that like embrace that like, Wow, you have such a big problem. Fantastic. We love big problems that's got to be the attitude.
George Haikal: Got it. That's
George Haikal: alright. So I think in one of your slides you mentioned like when we are moving from step only to complete a good metric to decide if it's complete is that it's a it's an existing multi 1 billion dollar industry. But what about ideas or products that have never existed in the past? Like, you know, something completely new to the ecosystem.
George Haikal: like a 0 to one you know what? Something that never existed, for example, Facebook, never something like that never existed, maybe smaller companies. But
George Haikal: this may be a wrong example, some-, some disruptive innovation that never existed in the past.
George Haikal: How how do we create that
George Haikal: metric for us? If you know, if it's a completely new industry or a new technology, the technology might be new. The problem is old.
George Haikal: You might have an AI driven way to increase e-commerce sales approach that follows up over you with your Whatsapp. So let's go back to the abandoned has never existed. So therefore we could not have messaged people on Whatsapp saying like, hey? I noticed that you added this to your car. You never checked out what was wrong with it, and an agent can have that conversation and say, Oh, you were looking for faster shipping. Oh, that's how this is on the website. I can make it happen for you. Great like click on this link by the buy the product. It's an arbitrary example.
George Haikal: This technology has never existed before, but people have been trying to solve abandoned cars for years like the problem should be an old problem. The approach might be new, but that existing of like I'm trying to make the most with my ad spend. To get more people through my e-commerce channel is the same. So
George Haikal: I don't want you guys to get stuck with like the ejecting the e-commerce increases is new. Okay? But the problem. All people have been trying to make more money with e-commerce since they, the 1st website was built right? So that's the nuance in here. There's an existing spend someone's job in that e-commerce business to get more people to hit, add to cart, and then check out like there's a demand person in there who wakes up every morning and worries about this, and they have an existing spend. Founders are usually wrong without assuming that their categories
George Haikal: they're usually wrong. Not always. And there are examples of disruptive innovations around. But, to be clear, I would argue 9 times out of 10 when I hear about them say, Yeah, but there's not consumption here, meaning no one. There's no solution is just like this. They just haven't done their due diligence. That's a good thing. If your solution never existed, it's good. You do something innovative, but solve an existing problem. But don't invent a new problem for your customer that has never existed before.
George Haikal: like, Oh, my God! Like this is a new thing that you never thought you needed. Maybe they need that, but there's a good chance. They'll also be like, Hey, dude! I got my 3 Kps over here like I'm trying to fix them. What I'm saying is, your solution should move existing objectives in the business.
George Haikal: But I mean there is a slight chance that we might
George Haikal: end up making something less innovative
George Haikal: if we think with this approach, for example, they say, like when forward invented the cardboard, or whoever. I don't know
George Haikal: if people were thinking how to make courses faster.
George Haikal: So if we have to create something completely out of the box, you know, we might have to be cost effective with the horse right? Like it still has to be like less maintenance than the horse. But you're ultimately selling cars to horse owners. I get it. They still got to go from place A to place B. They're still making an effort in maintaining the horse. They're still scooping up shit, and you can be like, hey, this thing got shit. It's better like you're ultimately comparing it to an existing outcome that the customers are looking for.
George Haikal: And the point with that quote wasn't I think, how you just described it. The actual quote was, if I'd ask the customers what they want, they would say it faster.
George Haikal: That's the quote. So they still want to pass the horses.
George Haikal: and I gotta add in the enterprises risk adverse. They want to know that what they're doing is not going too far. They want to say they're innovative, but they want to know exactly where they're operating, and they want to get the promotion. They want to be able to say, we're doing something cheaper. We're doing anything outside of that is somewhere, something that they want to say
George Haikal: totally. And, Michael, I can argue from place A to place B. It's faster. It's a faster horse does something with bionic
George Haikal: like
George Haikal: I don't know. People are still traveling across the country. The job is the same like they would do it in caramel caravans. It would take years to go from New York to San Francisco. People would die along the way. Whatever a plane gets you there faster. The job is still the same. You go from Europe to San Francisco
George Haikal: like I'm not saying don't invent the plane. That's a good thing. What I'm saying is that don't invent the need for like oh, my God! No one's traveling ever from here to San Francisco. Now you hear people say, guess what guys we're going to sm like here, you go like, that is a harder sell. Yeah, that's more times than industry. Yeah.
George Haikal: that is what happened with blockchain. Right? Okay. Let's see.
George Haikal: Yes, you know about yourself, and just like better than how you found